Sokka, look!;Sshh! Katara, you're going to scare it away.  Mmmm ... I can already smell it cookin'.
Hey!;Why is it that every time you play with magic water, I get soaked?
It's not magic, it's waterbending! And it's ...;Yeah, yeah, an ancient art unique to our culture, blah, blah, blah. Look, I'm just saying  that if I had weird powers, I'd keep my weirdness to myself.
You call that left?;You don't like my steering? Well, maybe you should've  waterbended us out of the ice.
So it's my fault?;I knew I should've left you home!  Leave it to a girl to screw things up!
Ever since mom died,  I've been doing all the work around camp while you've been off playing soldier!;Uh ... Katara ...
I even wash all the clothes! Have you ever smelled your dirty socks? Let me tell you, not pleasant!;Katara, settle down!
No that's it! I'm done helping you! From now on, you're on your own!;Okay, you've gone from weird to freakish,  Katara.
You mean I did that?;Yep.  Congratulations.
He's alive! We have to help!;Katara, get back here!  We don't know what that thing is!
Finally!  Uncle, do you realize what this means?!;I won't get to finish my game?
That light came from an incredibly powerful source!  It has to be him!;Or it's just the celestial lights. We've been down this road before, Prince Zuko.  I don't want you to get too excited over nothing.  Please, sit. Why don't you enjoy a cup of calming Jasmine tea?
I don't need any calming tea! I need to capture the Avatar! Helmsman, head a course for the light!;Stop!
What's going on here?;You tell us!  How did you get in the ice? And why aren't you frozen?
Ha, ha! You're okay!;What is that thing?
This is Appa, my flying bison.;Right, and this is Katara, my flying sister.
Don't worry, it'll wash out.  So do you guys live around here?;Don't answer that! Did you see that crazy bolt of light?! He was probably trying to signal the Fire Navy!
I'm A ... a-a-a-Achoo!  I'm Aang.;You just sneezed ...  and flew ten feet in the air!
Sure am!;Giant light beams, flying bison, airbenders ...  I think I got midnight sun madness. I'm going home to where stuff makes sense.
We'd love a ride! Thanks!;Oh no! I'm not getting on that fluffy snot monster!
Come on, Appa. Yip-yip!;Wow, that was truly amazing ...
Oh, I was smiling?;I'm going to bed now.  Yep, a man needs his rest.  Prince Zuko, you need some sleep. Even if you're right, and the Avatar is alive, you won't find him. Your father, grandfather and great-grandfather all tried and failed.
Call me Gran-Gran.;What is this, a weapon? You can't stab anything with this!
Not magic, airbending.  It lets me control the air currents around my glider and fly.;Ya know, last time I checked, humans can't fly!
It's amazing!;My watchtower!
That was amazing!;Great. You're an airbender, Katara's a waterbender. Together you can just waste time all day long.
See? Now my tongue is stuck to my staff!;Again.
Enough! I've been drilling this sequence all day. Teach me the next set! I'm more than ready!;No, you are impatient.  You have yet to master your basics.  Drill it again!
The sages tell us that the Avatar is the last airbender.  He must be over a hundred years old by now. He's had a century to master the four elements! I'll need more than basic firebending to defeat him.  You will teach me the advanced set!;Very well,  but first, I must finish my roast duck.
Very well,  but first, I must finish my roast duck.;Now men, it's important that you show no fear when you face a firebender.  In the Water Tribe, we fight to the last man standing! For without courage, how can we call ourselves men?
I gotta pee!;Listen! Until your fathers return from the War, they're counting on you to be the men of this tribe, and that means no potty breaks!
But I really gotta go!;Okay, who else has to go?
Wow! Everything freezes in there!;Uh!  Katara, get him out of here! This lesson is for warriors only!
Whee!;Stop! Stop it right now!  What's wrong with you?! We don't have time for fun and games with the War going on!
What war? What are you talking about?;You're kidding, right?
Penguin!;He's kidding, right?
Yay! Aang's back!;I knew it!  You signaled the Fire Navy with that flare! You're leading them straight to us, aren't you?
Don't blame Katara. I brought her there. It's my fault.;Aha! The traitor confesses! Warriors, away from the enemy.  The foreigner is banished from our village.
Sokka, you're making a mistake.;No, I'm keeping my promise to Dad.  I'm protecting you, from threats like him!
Aang is not our enemy!  Don't you see? Aang's brought us something we haven't had in a long time: fun.;Fun?! We can't fight firebenders with fun!
You should try it sometime.;Get out of our village! Now!
Fine! Then I'm banished, too!  Come on Aang, let's go.;Where do you think you're going?
I am?  Great!;Katara! Would you really choose him over your tribe?  Your own family?
Guess I'll go back home and look for the airbenders.  Wow, I haven't cleaned my room in a hundred years. Not looking forward to that.  It was nice meeting everyone.;Let's see your bison fly now, air boy.
Come on Appa, you can do it. Yip-yip!;Yeah, I thought so!
You happy now?  There goes my one chance at becoming a waterbender!;All right, ready our defenses! The Fire Nation could be on our shores any moment now!
But I gotta ...;And no potty breaks!
Yeah, I liked her too.  The village!  Appa, wait here.;Oh man!
Hey, Katara. Hey, Sokka.;Hi, Aang. Thanks for coming.
Aang?;No way!
We have to go after that ship, Sokka. Aang saved our tribe, now we have to save him.;Katara, I --
Why can't you realize that he's on our side?  If we don't help him, no one will. I know you don't like Aang, but we owe him and --;Katara!  Are you gonna talk all day, or are you comin' with me?
Sokka!;Get in, we're going to save your boyfriend.
He's not my --;Whatever.
You'll need these.  You have a long journey ahead of you.  It's been so long since I've had hope, but you brought it back to life, my little waterbender.  And you, my brave warrior, be nice to your sister.;Yeah, okay Gran.
Appa!;You just looove taking me out of my comfort zone, don't you?
This staff will make an excellent gift for my father.  I suppose you wouldn't know of fathers, being raised by monks.  Take the Avatar to the prison hold,  and take this to my quarters.;Hey, you mind taking this to his quarters for me?
The Avatar has escaped!;Go. Fly.  Soar.
Please, Appa. We need your help. Aang needs your help.;Up. Ascend. Elevate.
Sokka doesn't believe you can fly, but I do, Appa.  Come on, don't you want to save Aang?;What was it that kid said? Yee-haw? Hup-hup? Wah-hoo? Uh ... Yip-yip?
You did it, Sokka!;He's flying! He's flying! Katara, he's -
Did you see what he just did?!;Now that was some waterbending!
Hey, Katara. Hey, Sokka. Thanks for coming.;Well, I couldn't let you have all the glory.
I dropped my staff.;Got it!
Hurry up, Sokka!;I'm just a guy, with a boomerang.  I didn't ask for all this flying and magic!  Yip-yip! Yip-yip!
I'm just a guy, with a boomerang.  I didn't ask for all this flying and magic!  Yip-yip! Yip-yip!;Duh? Huh?
Shoot them down!;Good news for the Fire Lord. The Fire Nation's greatest threat is just a little kid.
And Sokka, I'm sure you'll get to knock some firebender heads on the way.;I'd like that. I'd reeally like that.
Wake up, Sokka! Air Temple, here we come!;Uggh! Sleep now. Temple later.
Sokka! Wake up!  There's a prickle snake in your sleeping bag!;Ahh!  Get it off! Get it off!  Ahh!
Uncle, I want the repairs made as quickly as possible. I don't want to stay too long and risk losing his trail.;You mean the Avatar?
It's commander now. And  General Iroh. Great hero of our nation.;Retired general.
The Fire Lord's brother and son are welcome guests anytime. What brings you to my harbor?;Our ship is being repaired.
Yes.  You wouldn't believe what happened.  Uncle! Tell Commander Zhao what happened.;Yes. I will do that.  It was incredible!  What? Did we crash or something?
Sorry, but we have to go.;Prince Zuko, show Commander Zhao your respect.  We would be honored to join you. Do you have any ginseng tea? It's my favorite.
Prince Zuko, show Commander Zhao your respect.  We would be honored to join you. Do you have any ginseng tea? It's my favorite.;Hey, stomach? Be quiet, all right? I'm trying to find us some food.
Oh. That was food?  I used it to start the campfire last night.  Sorry.;You what?!  No wonder the flames smelled so good.
Two years at sea have done little to temper your tongue. So, how is your search for the Avatar going?;Eh.. My fault, entirely.
Now remind me,  how, exactly, was your ship damaged?;So where do I get something to eat?
You're lucky enough to be one of the first outsiders to ever visit an airbender temple, and all you can think about is food?;I'm just a simple guy, with simple needs.
This place used to be full of monks and lemurs and bison. Now there's just a bunch of weeds.  I can't believe how much things have changed.;So uh, this airball game. How do you play?
Aang, seven!  Sokka, zero!;Making him feel better is putting me in a world of hurt.  Katara, check this out.
Fire Nation.;We should tell him.
Nice one! But enough practicing,  we have a whole temple to see!;You know, you can't protect him forever.
Hey guys!  I want you to meet somebody!;Who's that?
Katara, whoever's in there might help figure out this Avatar thing!;And whoever's in there might have  a medley of delicious  cured meats!
Keep them here.;More tea, please.
More tea, please.;Statues? That's it? Where's the meat?
Wow! There are so many!;Past lives?  Katara, you really believe in that stuff?
That's Avatar Roku, the Avatar before me.;You were a firebender? No wonder I didn't trust you when we first met.
I'm not sure. I just know it somehow.;You just couldn't get any weirder.
Shhhh!;That firebender won't know what hit him.
Lemur!;Dinner!
Don't listen to him. You're going to be my new pet.;Not if I get him first!
Wait! Come back!;I want to eat you!
Don't underestimate me, Zhao! I will capture the Avatar before you!;Prince Zuko, that's enough.
Very well.  It's a shame your father won't be here to watch me humiliate you.  I guess your uncle will do.;Prince Zuko, have you forgotten what happened last time you dueled a master?
Gyatso.;Hey, Aang! You find my dinner yet?  Aang, I wasn't really going to eat the lemur, okay?  Oh, man.  Come on, Aang. Everything will be all right. Let's get out of here.
Send word to the Fire Lord immediately! The Avatar has returned!;Aang! Come on! Snap out of it!
What happened?;He found out firebenders killed Gyatso!
Oh no! It's his Avatar Spirit!  He must have triggered it! I'm going to try and calm him down!;Well, do it! Before he blows us off the mountain!
Well, do it! Before he blows us off the mountain!;Remember your firebending basics,  Prince Zuko. They are your greatest weapons.
This will be over quickly.;Basics, Zuko!  Break his root!
Next time you get in my way, I promise, I won't hold back.;No, Prince Zuko. Do not taint your victory.  So this is how the great Commander Zhao acts in defeat?  Disgraceful.  Even in exile, my nephew is more honorable than you.  Thanks again for the tea. It was delicious.
Did you really mean that, Uncle?;Of course. I told you ginseng tea is my favorite.
Aang! I know you're upset and I know how hard it is to lose the people you love. I went through the same thing when I lost my mom.  Monk Gyatso and the other airbenders may be gone,  but you still have a family. Sokka and I!  We're your family now!;Katara and I aren't going to let anything happen to you. Promise.
Looks like you made a new friend Sokka!;Can't talk! Must eat!
The only reason you should be interrupting me, is if you have news about the Avatar.;Well, there is news, Prince Zuko, but you might not like it. Don't get too upset.
Uncle, you taught me that keeping a level head is a sign of a great leader. Now, whatever you have to say, I'm sure I can take it.;Okay then.  We have no idea where he is.
What!?;You really should open a window in here.
Give me the map!;Well, there have been multiple sightings of the Avatar, but he is impossible to track down.
How am I going to find him, Uncle?  He is clearly a master of evasive maneuvering.;You have no idea where you're going, do you?
Well ...  I know it's near water.;I guess we're getting close then.
But I'm not doing it now.;Stop bugging her, airhead. You need to give girls space when they do their sewing.
What does me being a girl have to do with sewing?;Simple. Girls are better at fixing pants than guys and guys are better at hunting and fighting and stuff like that.  It's just the natural order of things.
All done with your pants!  And look what a great job I did!;Wait! I was just kidding.  I can't wear these! Katara, please!
Relax, Sokka. Where we're going, you won't need any pants.;We just made a pit stop yesterday. Shouldn't we get a little more flying done before we camp out?
I said, aren't you boy?;Yeah, that was real convincing. Still, hard to argue with a ten-ton magical monster.
He looks pretty good out there.;Are you kidding?  The fish is doing all the work.
Oh man ...;There's something in the water!
What's wrong?;Aang's in trouble. Aang!
Get out of there!;Get back here, Aang!
I don't know.;Well, let's not stick around to find out. Time to hit the road.
And if you don't answer all our questions, we're throwing you back in the water with the Unagi.;Show yourselves, cowards!
There were no men. We ambushed you. Now tell us, who are you and what are you doing here?;Wait a second,  there's no way that a bunch of girls took us down.
The Avatar's on Kyoshi Island?  Uncle, ready the rhinos. He's not getting away from me this time.;Are you going to finish that?
Sokka, what's your problem? Eat!;Not hungry.
He's just upset because a bunch of girls kicked his butt yesterday.;They snuck up on me!
Right. And then they kicked your butt.;Sneak attacks don't count!  Tie me up with ropes! I'll show them a thing or two.  I'm not scared of any girls.  Who do they think they are anyway?  Mmm ... this is tasty.
Hmmm ... Painting the Avatar ... that's easy enough ...  Oh, there's another one ...  Well, I'll make an adjustment here, and ...  There's more ...  well that ...;I can't believe I got beat up by a bunch of girls.
Well, you're in the right place.  Sorry about yesterday. I didn't know that you were friends with the Avatar.;It's all right.  I mean, normally I'd hold a grudge, but seeing as you guys are a bunch of girls, I'll make an exception.
I should hope so. A big strong man like you? We wouldn't stand a chance.;True. But don't feel bad. After all, I'm the best warrior in my village.
Wow! Best warrior, huh?  In your whole village?  Maybe you'd be kind enough to give us a little demonstration.;Oh ... Well ... I mean ... I ...
Come on, girls! Wouldn't you like him to show us some moves?;Well, if that's what you want, I'd be happy to.  All right, you stand over there. Now, this may be a little tough, but try to block me.
Of course.;Let's see if you can  handle this!
Urch!;Uh ... Hey, Suki.
Hoping for another dance lesson?;No ... I ... well, let me explain.
Spit it out! What do you want?;I would be honored if you would teach me.
Even if I'm a girl?;I'm sorry if I insulted you earlier. I was ... wrong.
We normally don't teach outsiders, let alone boys.;Please make an exception.  I won't let you down.
All right. But you have to follow all of our traditions.;Of course!
And I mean all of them.;Do I really have to wear this? It feels a little ...  girly.
It's a warrior's uniform, you should be proud.  The silk threads symbolize the brave blood that flows through our veins. The gold insignia represents the honor of the warrior's heart.;Bravery and honor.
You're not going to master it in one day. Even I'm not that good.;I think I'm starting to get it.
It's not about strength. Our technique is about using your opponents' force against them. Loosen up.  Think of the fan as an extension of your arm.  Wait for an opening and then ...;Hmm ...
I fell on purpose to make you feel better!;I got you! Admit I got you!
Firebenders have landed on our shores!  Girls, come quickly!;Hey, I'm not a ...  oh, whatever!
Come out, Avatar!  You can't hide from me forever!  Find him.;I guess training's over.
There's no time to say goodbye.;What about, I'm sorry?
For what?;I treated you like a girl when I should've treated you like a warrior.
Wow. We don't have buildings like this in the South Pole!;They have buildings here that don't melt!
Wait, Aang! It could be dangerous if people find out you're the Avatar.;You need a disguise.
Ugh. This is so itchy.  How do you live in this stuff?;Great! Now you look just like my grandfather.
Earthbending brings the packages up, and gravity brings them down.;Great, so they get their mail on time.
Oh, Kangaroo Island, eh? I hear that place is really hopping!;What? It was pretty funny.
Lettuce leaf?;We're in serious trouble. This guy is nuts.
He did say it was newly refurbished.;Nice or not, we're prisoners!
The air vents!;If you think we're going to fit through there, you're crazier than that king.
Go on, boy, get Appa!;Eh, how was Appa supposed to save us anyway?
Those delightful rings are made of pure jennamite, also known as creeping crystal. It's a crystal that grows remarkably fast.  By nightfall your friends will be completely covered in it.  Terrible thing, really.  I can stop it, but only if you cooperate.;Ah! It's already creeping!
Oh, but what's the point of tests if you don't learn anything?;Oh, come on!
Think about the challenges. Maybe it's some kind of riddle.;I got it!
Yeah?;He's an earthbender, right? Rocky. You know, because of all the rocks.
Uh, over here!;Little help?
Who are you calling old? Okay, I'm old.;Why did you do all of this instead of just telling Aang who you were?
What's for dinner?;We've got a few options. First; round nuts. And some kind of oval shaped nuts? And some rock-shaped nuts, that might just be rocks.  Dig in!
Seriously ... what else you got?;What was that?
It's coming from over there!;Shouldn't we run away from huge booms? Not toward them?
Let's go meet him!;He looks dangerous, so we better approach cautiously.
Which means no nuts for dinner!;Hey! I worked hard to get those nuts!  Yeah, I hate 'em too.
Open up!;Fire Nation! Act natural!
You can keep the copper ones.;Nice guy. How long has the Fire Nation been here?
I guess so.;Everyone should get some sleep, we're leaving at dawn.
Dawn?! Can't we sleep in for once?;Absolutely not! This village is crawling with Fire Nation troops. If they discover you're here, Aang, we'll be eating fireballs for breakfast. Goodnight.
I'd rather eat fireballs than nuts.;Goodnight!
The old man turned him in to the Fire Nation - it's all my fault - I forced him into earthbending!;Slow down, Katara. When did this happen?
Haru's mother said they came for him at midnight.;Then it's too late to track him, he's long gone.
Because they're going to arrest me for earthbending.;I thought you were crazy at first, Katara, but this might work. There are ventilation shafts throughout these mines. All Aang has to do is send an air current from that vent to this one right here. The boulder levitates and ta-da! Fake earthbending.
Sure, sure. I got it.;Do you remember your cue?
Yeah, yeah. Just relax. You're taking all the fun out of this.;By this, do you mean intentionally being captured by a group of ruthless firebenders?
Exactly! That's fun stuff!;Here they come! Get in your places!
How dare you call me pipsqueak, you giant-eared cretin!;What did you call me?
A giant-eared cretin! Look at those things! Do herds of animals use them for shade?!;You better back off!  Seriously, back off.
I will not back off! I bet elephants get together and make fun of how large your ears are!;That's it! You're going down!
That lemur! He's earthbending!;No, you idiot, it's the girl!
Oh.  Of course.;I'll hold her.  You've got twelve hours to find Haru. We'll be right behind you.
Earthbenders! You don't know me, but I know of you. Every child in my Water Tribe village was rocked to sleep with stories of the brave Earth Kingdom, and the courageous earthbenders who guard its borders.  Some of you may think that the Fire Nation has made you powerless. Yes, they have taken away your ability to bend. But they can't take away your courage. And it is your courage they should truly fear! Because it runs deeper than any mine you've been forced to dig, any ocean that keeps you far from home! It is the strength of your hearts that make you who you are. Hearts that will remain unbroken when all rock and stone has eroded away. The time to fight back is now! I can tell you the Avatar has returned! So remember your courage earthbenders,  let us fight for our freedom!;Your twelve hours are up; where's Haru? We've gotta get outta here!
I can't.;We don't have much time. There are guards everywhere. Get on!
I'm not leaving.  I'm not giving up on these people.;What do you mean you're not leaving?
Maybe she's right. What do you say, Sokka?;I say you're both crazy!  Last chance! We need to leave, now!
No!;I hate when you get like this. Come on, we better hide.
Then wake up someone I haven't thrown overboard and search the rig! There's something going on here and I don't like it.;We don't have much time. What are we gonna do?
The warden would run away and we'd steal his keys!;Wouldn't he just take his keys with him?
I tried talking the earthbenders into fighting back but, it didn't work! If there was just a way to help them help themselves.;For that they'd need some kind of earth, or some rock. Something they can bend.
It's almost dawn. We're running out of time! You sure this is gonna work?;It should. These vents reminded me of our little trick back at the village. We're gonna do the same thing, but on a much bigger scale.  There's a huge deposit of coal at the base of the silo. And the whole system is ventilated. Aang closed off all the vents except one. When he does his airbending the coal only has one place to go, right back here.
There's the intruder!;Stay back! I'm warning you!
Those clouds look so soft,  don't they? Like you could just jump down and you'd land in a big, soft, cottony heap?;Maybe you should give it a try.
Hey, what is that?;It's like a scar ...
Aang? Are you okay?;Fire Nation! Those evil savages make me sick! They have no respect for -
Shhh!;What? I'm not allowed to be angry?
Yeah. A waterbending teacher. But there's no one who can teach me how to be the Avatar. Monk Gyatso said that Avatar Roku would help me.;The Avatar before you? He died over a hundred years ago; how are you supposed to talk to him?
Uncle! It's time to leave! Where are you? Uncle Iroh!;Over here!
Uncle? We need to move on. We're closing in on the Avatar's trail and I don't want to lose him.;You look tired, Prince Zuko. Why don't you join me in these hot springs and soak away your troubles?
My troubles cannot be soaked away. It's time to go!;You should take your teacher's advice and relax a little. The temperature's just right. I heated it myself.
Enough! We need to leave now. Get out of the water!;Very well!
No.  Ow! Hey, how is that cheering me up?;Cheered me up.  Ow. Yeah, I probably deserved that.
Thanks, Katara.;Hey, who are you?
Our village is in crisis, he's our only hope!  For the last few days at sunset, a spirit monster comes and attacks our village. He is Hei Bai, the black and white spirit.;Why is it attacking you?
I think you can do it, Aang.;Yeah.  We're all going to get eaten by a spirit monster.
Yeah.  We're all going to get eaten by a spirit monster.;Who's there?  A meadow vole! I should have known.  You startled me, little one.  It seems I dozed off and missed my nephew's deadline, but it was a very sweet nap.
Hello, Spirit? Can you hear me? This is the Avatar speaking. I'm here to try to help stuff.;This isn't right. We can't sit here and cower while Aang waits for some monster to show up.
If anyone can save us, he can.;He still shouldn't have to face this alone.
The Avatar's methods are ... unusual.;It doesn't seem too interested in what he's saying. Maybe we should go help him.
Please, would you stop destroying things and listen? I'm trying to do my job as spirit bridge! Excuse me, would you please turn around?  I command you to turn around now!;That's it. He needs help.
It's not safe!;Hei Bai, over here!
Sokka, go back!;We'll fight him together, Aang.
Land doesn't slide uphill. Those rocks didn't move naturally.  My uncle's been captured by earthbenders!;Aang! Over here! Help!
Sokka!  I failed.;Where are you taking me?
We're taking you to face justice.;Right, but where, specifically?
A place you're quite familiar with, actually. You once laid siege to it for 600 days, but it would not yield to you.;Ah, the great city of Ba Sing Se.
It was greater than you were, apparently.;I acknowledge my defeat at Ba Sing Se. After 600 days away from home, my men were tired, and I was tired.  And I'm still tired.
What's the problem?;Nothing.  Actually, there is a bit of a problem. My old joints are sore and aching, and these shackles are too loose.
Too loose?;That's right. The cuffs move and jangle around and bump my wrists. It would help me if you tighten them so they wouldn't shake around so much.
These dangerous hands must be crushed.;Excellent form, Prince Zuko.
Surrender yourselves. It's five against two. You're clearly outnumbered.;Yeah, that's true, but you are clearly outmatched.
Sokka!;What happened?
You were trapped in the Spirit World for 24 hours! How are you feeling?;Like I seriously need to use the bathroom.
Thank you, Avatar. If only there were a way to repay you for what you've done.;You could give us some supplies, and some money.
Sokka!;What? We need stuff.
Actually, I did have a little help and there's something else.;What is it?
That's great!;Creepy, but great.
Let's go, Appa! Come on, boy!  Look I'm sorry, but Katara and Sokka aren't coming to the Fire Nation with us.  If they got hurt, I'd never forgive myself.  So get your big butt off the ground and let's go!;I think his big butt is trying to tell ya something.
We're not letting you go into the Fire Nation, Aang.;At least, not without your friends. We got your back.  Ew!
Come on boy, we've got a long way to go. Faster!;Sailing into Fire Nation waters ... Of all the foolish things you've done in your sixteen years, Prince Zuko, this is the most foolish!
I have no choice, Uncle.;Have you completely forgotten that the Fire Lord banished you?  What if you're caught?
I'm chasing the Avatar! My father will understand why I am returning home!;You give him too much credit. My brother is not the understanding type!
Aang. We've got trouble!;Yeah! And it's gaining, fast!
Yeah! And it's gaining, fast!;Uh, really Prince Zuko, couldn't you shoot them down with something more fragrant?
We have to get out of Zuko's range, before he shoots another hot stinker at us!;Can't you make Appa go any faster?
A blockade.;Technically you are still in Earth Kingdom waters. Turn back now and they cannot arrest you.
And that's exactly why we're here.;Let's run this blockade!
He's not turning around!;Please Prince Zuko! If the Fire Nation captures you, there is nothing I can do! Do not follow the Avatar.
We made it!;We got into the Fire Nation.  Great.
I'm not sure.  But I bet a certain banished prince will know.;We're on a collision course!
Aww, you must be tired.;No! I'm good. Refreshed and ready to fight some firebenders!
I was talking to Appa.;Well ... I was talking to Momo.
It's almost sundown. We better hurry!;Wait. I think I heard something.
Follow me!;Do you know where you're going?
I don't want to fight you! I am a friend.;Firebenders aren't our friends!
What's he up to, Uncle? Why didn't Commander Zhao arrest me?;Because he wants to follow you. He knows you'll lead him to the prize you're both after: the Avatar.
They were waiting for me.;Hey don't feel bad. You're only a hundred years late!
No. Only a fully realized Avatar is powerful enough to open this door alone. Otherwise, the sages must open this door together,  with five simultaneous fire blasts.;Five fire blasts, huh?  I think I can help you out.
Uncle, keep heading north. Zhao will follow the smoke trail, while I use it as a cover.;This is a little trick I picked up from my father. I seal the lamp oil inside an animal skin casing, Shyu lights the oil soaked twine and,  ta-da! Fake firebending!
I'm sorry I put you through all of this for nothing.;I don't get it. That firebending looked as strong as any firebending I've seen.
Wait. How is Sokka a genius? His plan didn't even work.;Come on Aang. Let her dream.
How's Aang gonna make it out of this?;How are we gonna make it out of this?
Not without Aang!;We got your back.
It's what Avatar Roku said. I'm supposed to master all four elements before that comet arrives.;Well, let's see. You pretty much mastered airbending and that only took you a hundred and twelve years. I'm sure you can master three more elements by next summer.
We'll need to find a good source of water first.;Maybe we can find a puddle for you to splash in.
Oh right. Time to practice waterbending.;Great. So what am I supposed to do?
You could ... clean the gunk out of Appa's toes.;So, while you guys are playing in the water, I'm supposed to be hard at work picking mud out of a giant bison's feet?
Mud and bugs!;Okay.
What is the meaning of this mutiny? No one told you to change course!;Actually, someone did. I assure you, it is a matter of utmost importance, Prince Zuko.
Is it something to do with the Avatar?;Even more urgent. It seems, I-  -I have lost my lotus tile.
Lotus tile?;For my Pai Sho game. Most people think the lotus tile insignificant, but it is essential for the unusual strategy that I employ.
You've changed our course for a stupid lotus tile?;See, you, like most people, underestimate it's value. Just give me ten minutes to check the merchants at this port of call.  Hopefully, they will have the lotus tile in stock and I can get on with my life.  I'm lucky to have such an understanding nephew.
See, you, like most people, underestimate it's value. Just give me ten minutes to check the merchants at this port of call.  Hopefully, they will have the lotus tile in stock and I can get on with my life.  I'm lucky to have such an understanding nephew.;Yeah, don't get too happy. You've got to do me next.
So, like this?;Aang?!
That's enough practicing for today.;Yeah, I'll say!  You just practiced our supplies down the river.
Uh, sorry.  I'm sure we can find somewhere to replace all this stuff.;My life was hard enough when you were just an airbender.
Uh, make that two copper pieces, Sokka. I couldn't say no to this whistle!;It doesn't even work.  See? Even Momo thinks it's a piece of junk.
Let's just say I got it up North, at a most reasonable price, free.;Wait a minute ... Sea loving traders, with suspiciously acquired merchandise,  and pet reptile birds?  You guys are pirates!
What was that all about, Katara?;Yeah, I was just starting to browse through their boomerang collection.
This way. Let's cut 'em off!;Whoa!
Isn't it great?;No wonder they were trying to hack us up! You stole their waterbending scroll!
Sokka, where do you think they got it? They stole it from a waterbender!;It doesn't matter. You put all of our lives in danger just so you could learn some stupid, fancy splashes.
These are real waterbending forms. You know how crucial it is for Aang to learn waterbending!;Whatever.
Well, what's done is done. We have it, we might as well learn from it.;I've checked all the shops on this pier. Not a lotus tile in the entire marketplace.
It's good to know this trip was a complete waste of time for everyone!;Quite the contrary. I always say, the only thing better than finding something you are looking for  is finding something you weren't looking for at a great bargain!
You bought a tsungi horn?;For music night on the ship. Now, if we only had some woodwinds.  Oh, this place looks promising!  Oh, that is handsome! Wouldn't it look magnificent in the galley?
I just want to try this one move first and then it's all yours.  Here, hold it open for me. The single water whip. Looks doable.  Ow!;Ha, ha, ha!
What's so funny?;I'm sorry, but you deserved that.  You've been duped; she's only interested in teaching herself.
It's okay Katara.;What about Momo? He's the real victim here.
I'm sorry, Momo.;And what about me? There was that time you—
Fine.;Huh? Where did she go?  I don't believe it.
What's wrong?;She took the scroll! She's obsessed with that thing. It's just a matter of time before she gets us all in deep-
I got him, come on!;Oh, what? I'm not good enough to kidnap? Ah!
No Katara, it isn't.;Yeah, it kind of is.
You give us the scroll.;You're really gonna hand over the Avatar for a stupid piece of parchment?
Your friend is the Avatar?;Sure is, and I'll bet he'll fetch a lot more on the black market than that fancy scroll.
Yeah, Sokka, you really should shut your mouth.;I'm just sayin' it's bad business sense. Think how much the Fire Lord would pay for the Avatar. You guys would be set for life.
Thanks, Momo. I owe you a bushel of apples.;Aang, are you there?
I'm over here! Follow my voice!;Where? I can't find you!
Help me get this boat back in the water so we can get outta here.;We'd need a team of rhinos to budge this ship.
Everybody in!;Are you so busy fighting you cannot see your own ship has set sail?
We have no time for your proverbs, Uncle!;It's no proverb!
Hey! That's my boat!;Maybe it should be a proverb ...
Sokka, can't you make it go any faster?;I don't know how. This thing wasn't made by the Water Tribe!
I couldn't have done it without your help.;Would you two quit congratulating each other and help me out?
Oh no ...;Have you lost your mind? This is no time for flute practice!
We can stop the boat! Aang, together, push and pull the water!  It's working, it's slowing down! We're doing it!;But we have another problem.
I knew a bison whistle would come in handy! Thanks Appa.;Yeah, we owe you one.
My boat!;Prince Zuko, you're really going to get a kick out of this. That lotus tile was in my sleeve the whole time!
Besides, who needs that stupid scroll anyway?;Is that really how you feel?
The scroll!;First, what did you learn?
Hang on, Momo!  All right, you too.;This is gonna take forever.
That works.;These are Fire Nation traps,  you can tell from the metalwork. We better pack up camp, and get moving.
What? Why wouldn't we fly?;Think about it: Somehow Prince Zuko and the Fire Nation keep finding us. It's because they spot Appa, he's just too noticeable.
What? Appa's not too noticeable!;He's a gigantic fluffy monster with an arrow on his head! It's kinda hard to miss him!
Sokka's just jealous 'cause he doesn't have an arrow.;I know you all wanna fly, but my instincts tell me we should play it safe this time and walk.
Who made you the boss?;I'm not the boss, I'm the leader.
You're the leader? But your voice still cracks!;I'm the oldest, and I'm a warrior, so  I'm the leader!
If anyone's the leader, it's Aang. I mean he is the Avatar.;Are you kidding, he's just a goofy kid!
Why do boys always think someone has to be the leader? I bet you wouldn't be so bossy if you kissed a girl.;I've kissed a girl, you just haven't met her.
Who? Gran-Gran? I've met Gran-Gran.;No! Besides Gran-Gran. Look, my instincts tell me we have a better chance of slipping through on foot, and a leader has to trust his instincts.
Well I don't know, Aang. Why don't you ask Sokka's instincts? They seem to know everything.;Ha, ha, very funny.
That's a great idea. Hey, Sokka's instincts, would you mind-;Okay, okay, I get it. Look guys, I'm tired too. But the important thing is that we're safe from the  Fire ... Nation.
Sokka, your shirt!;If you let us pass, we promise not to hurt you.
What are you doing?;Bluffing?
Nice work, Sokka! How'd you do that?;Uh, instinct?
They're in the trees!;Hey, he was mine!
Gotta be quicker next time.;Man!
You just took out a whole army almost single-handed.;Army? There were only like, twenty guys.
We're here.;Where? There's nothing here.
Hold this.;Why? What's this do?
That's so brave.;Yeah, nothing's braver than a guy in a tree house.
So I might know a way that you and Aang can help in our struggle.;Unfortunately, we have to leave tonight.
Sokka, you're kidding me! I needed you on an important mission tomorrow.;What mission?
What are you doing?;Shh ... It amplifies vibrations.
Good trick.;Nothing yet.  Wait! Yes, someone's approaching.
How many?;I think there's just one.
Good work, Sokka. Ready your weapon.;Wait, false alarm ... He's just an old man.
Does the Fire Nation let people go? Does the Fire Nation have mercy?;Jet, he's just an old man!
He's Fire Nation! Search him!;But he's not hurting anyone!
We've got his stuff, Jet.;This doesn't feel right.
Hey, Sokka. Is Jet back?;Yeah he's back. But we're leaving.
But I made him this hat.;Your boyfriend Jet's a thug.
What? No, he's not.;He's messed up Katara.
He's not messed up, he's just got a different way of life, a really fun way of life.;He beat and robbed a harmless old man!
No, he conveniently left that part out.;Fine! But even if he was Fire Nation, he was a harmless civilian!
I knew there was an explanation.;I didn't see any knife!
See, Sokka? I'm sure you just didn't notice the knife.;There was no knife! I'm going back to the hut and packing my things.
We can't leave now with the Fire Nation about to burn down a forest!;I'm sorry Katara. Jet's very smooth, but we can't trust him.
You know what I think? You're jealous that he's a better warrior and a better leader!;Katara, I'm not jealous of Jet. It's just that my instinct—
Sokka, I'm glad you decided to join us.;I heard your plan to destroy the Earth Kingdom town.
Our plan is to rid the valley of the Fire Nation.;There are people living there, Jet; mothers and fathers and children.
We can't win without making some sacrifices.;You lied to Aang and Katara about the forest fire!
Because they don't understand the demands of war. Not like you and I do.;I do understand. I understand that there's nothing you won't do to get what you want.
I can't let you warn Katara and Aang.  Take him for a walk, a long walk.;You can't do this!
Come on, move along!;How can you stand by and do nothing while Jet wipes out a whole town?
Hey listen Sokka, Jet's a great leader. We follow what he says, and things always turn out okay.;If that's how Jet leads, then he's got a lot to learn.
Hey!;While you two are up there, you might want to practice your knot work.
This was a victory, Katara. Remember that. The Fire Nation is gone and this valley will be safe.;It will be safe, without you.
Sokka!;I warned the villagers of your plan, just in time.
What?!;At first they didn't believe me. The Fire Nation soldiers assumed I was a spy. But one man vouched for me, the old man you attacked. He urged them to trust me, and we got everyone out in time.
Sokka, you fool! We could've freed this valley!;Who would be free? Everyone would be dead.
You traitor!;No, Jet. You became the traitor when you stopped protecting innocent people.
Goodbye Jet.;Yip yip.
Let me guess, your instincts told you.;Hey, sometimes they're right.
Um ... Sokka? You know we're going the wrong way, right?;And sometimes they're wrong.
Um, aren't you forgetting the tarp?;Right, got it ...
Sokka, you're supposed to put the tarp on top of the tent. You know, so we don't get rained on?;Ordinarily, you'd be right, but seeing how it's the dry season, you're not. Besides that tarp makes a pretty warm blanket.
But what if it does rain?;What if it doesn't? Then I would have put up the tarp for nothing.
You're infuriating!;Katara, why don't you worry about gathering firewood, because that kindling is looking pretty sorry.
Well, if you don't like my firewood-;Fine by me, if you're not gonna do your job-
Okay, I got the grub if you guys got the-  hey, where's the campfire? And what happened to the tent?;Why don't you ask Miss Know-It-All, Queen of the Twigs.
Sounds good.;Whatever.
Wow, I could just stare at it forever.;Okay, I've seen enough.
How can you not be fascinated Sokka? This is the largest canyon in the entire world.;Then I'm sure we'll be able to see it very clearly from the air while we fly away.
Believe me, he's more than a tour guide, he's an earthbender,  and the only way in and out of the canyon is with his help, and he's taking my tribe across next.;Calm down, we know you're next.
Sorry, Appa, you'll have to do this on your own.;Aang, this feuding tribe stuff is serious business. Are you sure it's a good idea getting involved in this?
He's the Avatar, Sokka, making peace between people is his job.;His job's gonna make us cross this whole canyon on foot isn't it?
These people are fleeing the Fire Nation, aren't they? Gotta make sure we can't be followed. We'll be safe now.;We gotta help him!  Okay, now we gotta help me!
We're trapped in this canyon.;I thought the whole point of ditching our food was so we wouldn't have to deal with things like canyon crawlers.
Enough! I thought I could help you guys get along, but I guess that's not gonna happen.  We should split up, Gan Jins on this side and Zhangs on that side. We'll travel in two separate lines.  Sokka, you go with the Zhangs and Katara, you go with the Gan Jins. See if you can find out why they hate each other so much.;So, you guys aren't going to put up your tarps?
What for? Its the dry season.;Exactly!
Besides, we like to use the tarp as a blanket.;Finally, someone gets it!
Care for some meat?;Would I!
I know what you must be thinking, we're horrible for endangering everybody by bringing food down here.;Hm-hmm.
The Gan Jin think so badly of us, they probably assumed we brought food in and decided to bring food in themselves. That's why we brought food in.;Hmm.
Our conflict with the Gan Jin goes back over a hundred years.  Our forefather Wei Jin was leaving the western gate of our village, when he saw a figure in the distance. It was a man of the Gan Jin tribe, Jin Wei, collapsed on the ground. Noble Wei Jin stopped to help him. Jin Wei was transporting a sacred orb, a very powerful relic used in his tribe's redemption ritual. Wei Jin tried to tend to the man's wounds but Jin Wei insisted the orb was more important, and asked him to take it back to his tribe. Kind Wei Jin promised to send help for the man as soon as he could, but as Wei Jin crossed the border to return the orb into Gan Jin territory, he was arrested. Instead of thanking him for his kind and selfless deed, they sentenced him to twenty long years in prison.  We Zhangs will never forget that injustice.;That's just terrible.  You gonna finish that?
What are you talking about?;Yeah Katara, what are you talking about? Wei Jin didn't steal the orb, he was returning it to their village gate and was wrongfully punished by the Gan Jin.
Oh no, that's a lot of canyon crawlers.;We barely survived one!
Sokka, wait.  I don't care about this stupid feud, I just want us to get out of here alive.;Me too. I only took their side 'cause they fed me.
I'm going too! I'm sick of this place!;That's some luck you knew Jin Wei and Wei Jin.
You could call it luck. Or you could call it lying.;What?
We need you, Aang.  We need you. We need you, Aang. We need you.;What's going on?  Did we get captured again?
It's nothing. I just had a bad dream.  Go back to sleep.;Don't have to tell me twice.
I think I just need some rest.;You guys want to hear about my dream?  That's okay. I didn't want to talk about it anyway.
Well, we better smoothly fly  ourselves to a market, 'cause we're out of food.;Guys, wait. This was in my dream.  We shouldn't go to the market.
What happened in your dream?;Food eats people!  Also, Momo could talk.  You said some very unkind things.
Food eats people!  Also, Momo could talk.  You said some very unkind things.;There is a storm coming. A big one.
You're out of your mind, Uncle.  The weather's perfect. There's not a cloud in sight.;A storm is approaching from the north.  I suggest we alter our course and head southwest.
We know the Avatar is traveling northward, so we will do the same.;Prince Zuko, consider the safety of the crew.
Finding the Avatar is far more important than any individual's safety.;He doesn't mean that. He's just all worked up.
Awww!;Out of food and out of money. Now what are we supposed to do?
Maybe we should find some shelter?;Are you kidding? Shelter from what?
Then I'll find a new fish hauler and pay him double what you get!  How do you like that?;I'll go.
You're hired!;What? You said get a job ... and he's paying double.
Looks like your uncle was right about the storm after all.;Lucky guess.
What do you know about respect?  The way you talk to everyone around here, from your hard-working crew to your esteemed uncle, shows you know nothing about respect!  You don't care about anyone but yourself! Then again, what should I expect from a spoiled prince?;Easy now.  Enough! We're all a bit tired from being at sea so long. I'm sure after a bowl of noodles, everyone will feel much better.
Sokka, maybe this isn't such a good idea. Look at the sky.;I said I was going to do this job. I can't back out just because of some bad weather.
You're a horrible old man!  Appa, yip yip!;Hey! They left without saying good-bye!
Your friends ain't too polite, are they?;I know! This one time, I was ...
I'm sick of taking his orders! I'm tired of chasing his Avatar! I mean, who does Zuko think he is?;Do you really want to know?
General Iroh. We were just-;It's okay. May I join you?
Of course, sir.;Try to understand. My nephew is a complicated young man. He has been through much.
Let me in!;Prince Zuko, what's wrong?
I want to go into the war chamber  but the guard won't let me pass!;You're not missing anything, trust me. These meetings are dreadfully boring.
If I'm going to rule this nation one day, don't you think I need to start learning as much as I can?;Very well. But you must promise not to speak.  These old folks are a bit sensitive, you know?
You can't sacrifice an entire division like that! Those soldiers love and defend our nation! How can you betray them?;Zuko was right, you see,  but it was not his place to speak out. And there were dire consequences.
Hmph.;After Zuko's outburst in the meeting, the Fire Lord became very angry with him.  He said the challenge against the general was an act of complete disrespect! And there was only one way to resolve this.
Agni Kai. A fire duel.;That's right. Zuko looked upon the old general he had insulted and declared that he was not afraid. But Zuko misunderstood.  When he turned to face his opponent, he was surprised to see it was not the general.  Zuko had spoken out against the general's plan, but by doing so in the Fire Lord's war room, it was the Fire Lord whom he had disrespected.  Zuko would have to duel his own father.
I know it was meant to be this way. The world needs you now. You give people hope.;When Prince Zuko saw that it was his father who had come to duel him, he begged for mercy.
You will learn respect,  and suffering will be your  teacher.;I looked away.
I always thought that Prince Zuko was in a training accident.;It was no accident. After the duel, the Fire Lord said that by refusing to fight, Zuko had shown shameful weakness. As punishment, he was banished and sent to capture the Avatar. Only then could he return with his honor.
So that's why he's so obsessed. Capturing the Avatar is the only chance he has of things returning to normal.;Things will never return to normal. But the important thing is the Avatar gives Zuko hope.
I don't know!;Look!
Let him go. We need to get this ship to safety.;Then we must head directly into the eye of the storm.
Then we must head directly into the eye of the storm.;I'm too young to die!
Uncle, I'm sorry.;Your apology is accepted.
Fish ain't meat!;Seriously, you're still going to pay me, right?
And if you weren't here now, well, I guess I wouldn't be either. Thank you for saving my life, Avatar.;Do you hear that? It stopped raining.
This should bring your fever down.;You know what I love about Appa the most? His sense of humor.
That's nice. I'll tell him.;Classic Appa.
That's how Sokka started yesterday. Now look at him! He thinks he's an earthbender!;Take that, you rock!
A few more hours and you'll be talking nonsense, too. I'm going to go find some medicine!  Uh, maybe it's safer if I go on foot.  Keep an eye on them guys.;Ha, ha! You guys are killing me!
What do they want?;Perhaps, a sporting game of Pai Sho!
The hunt for the Avatar has been given prime importance. All information regarding the Avatar must be reported directly to Admiral Zhao.;Zhao has been promoted? Well, good for him!
Off my ship!;Excellent! I take the pot!  But you're all improving! I'm certain you will win if we play again.
Ah, that's just a bunch of Fire Lord propaganda! There's no way that's true!;Katara, please, water.
Hold on, I just need to add one last ingredient.  Oh, sandalwood ... oh, er, uh, that won't do, banana leaf? Ah, nope, uh, ginger root, uh uh, oh where is that pesky little plant?;Is everything okay? It's been almost an hour and you haven't given the men an order.
I don't care what they do.;Don't give up hope yet. You can still find the Avatar before Zhao.
Uhh, no. Tell me, how does it feel to be the only airbender left? Do you miss your people?  Don't worry, you won't be killed like they were.  See, if you die you will just be reborn and the Fire Nation would have to start searching all over again. So I'll keep you alive, but just barely.  Blow all the wind you want, but your situation is futile. There is no escaping this fortress, and no one is coming to rescue you.;Water ...
How many times do I have to tell you, Momo? We need water, wa-ter. Oh forget it. Aang, please, hurry.;Who's this Aang kid you keep talking about, Your Highness?
You know what the worst part of being born over a hundred years ago is? I miss all the friends I used to hang out with. Before the war started, I used to always visit my friend Kuzon. The two of us, we'd get in and out of so much trouble together. He was one of the best friends I ever had, and he was from the Fire Nation, just like you. If we knew each other back then, do you think we could have been friends, too?;Where have you been, Prince Zuko? You missed music night! Lieutenant Jee sang a stirring love song.
Suck on these. They'll make you feel better.;Aang, how was your trip? Did you make any new friends?
No, I don't think I did.;Mmmm! This is tasty! Mmm!
Look!;He is taunting us!  You are so going to be dinner!
Oh, I didn't think you would need it, Sokka.;Aw, it's all tangled!
Thanks, Aang.  I love it.;Great, Aang. Maybe instead of saving the world, you can go into the jewelry-making business.
I don't see why I can't do both.;Stop taunting me!
You mean, all of you or just your neck?  I mean, because they both look great!;Smoochie, smoochie, someone's in love!
Make noise! He'll run off!;No, play dead! He'll lose interest!
Run downhill, then climb a tree!;No, punch him in the bill!
Whoa there!;Mmm, lunch!  Lucky for you, we came along.
Wow, it must be.  That explains why you were so calm!;But the fortuneteller was wrong! You didn't have a safe journey; you were almost killed!
Maybe we should go see Aunt Wu and learn our fortunes. It could be fun.;Oh, come on. Fortune telling is nonsense!
That proves it!;No, it doesn't! You can't really tell the future!
I guess you're not really getting wet then.;Of course she predicted it was going to rain. The sky's been gray all day!
Just admit you might be wrong, and you can come under the umbrella.;Look, I'm going to predict the future now.  It's going to keep drizzling.  See?
Not everyone has the gift, Sokka.;Agh!
Can I get you some tea or some of Aunt Wu's special bean curd puffs?;I'll try a curd puff.
I guess.;Don't be modest!  They're huge!
Likewise.;I can't believe we're here in the house of nonsense.
Try to keep an open mind, Sokka. There are things in this world that just can't be explained. Wouldn't it be nice to have some insight into your future?;It would be nice to have some bean curd puffs.
I guess that's me.;Mm, not bad, not bad!  Mhm?
I'm good on puffs.  So, what do you think they're talking about back there?;Boring stuff I'm sure. Love, who she's going to marry, how many babies she's going to have.
I can see that he's a very powerful bender.;Looks like someone had a pretty good bathroom break.
Yeah ... when I was in there ...;I don't even want to know!
Who's next?;Okay, let's get this over with.
Your future is full of struggle and anguish. Most of it, self-inflicted.;But you didn't read my palms or anything!
Really?  Thank you, Aunt Wu!;Well, now you got to see for yourselves how fortune telling is just a big, stupid hoax.
You're just saying that because you're going to make yourself unhappy your whole life.;That woman is crazy! My life will calm and happy and joyful!
You better hope that's not a bunny! The fluffy bunny cloud forecasts doom and destruction.;Do you even hear yourself?
We used to have a tradition once a year of going up the mountain to check the volcano ourselves.  But every since Aunt Wu moved to the village twenty years ago, we have a tradition of not doing that.;I can't believe you would trust your lives to that crazy, old woman's superstition!
Yes, please!;I can't believe all these saps!  Someone really needs to scream some sense into them.
They seem happy, Sokka.;Not for long. I'm going to prove Aunt Wu's predictions are nonsense.  Hey you, I bet Aunt Wu told you to wear those red shoes, didn't she?
Yeah. She said I'd be wearing red shoes when I met my true love.;Uh huh ... And how many times have you worn those shoes since you got that fortune?
Everyday.;Then of course it's gonna come true!
You want me to do a reading for that?;I don't care what Aunt Wu told you! You have to take a bath sometime!
So, Sokka, you know some stuff about ladies, right?;Some stuff?  You've come to the right place. What can I do you for?
Well, there's this girl.;I think I know who you mean.
You do? And you're okay with it?;Of course I am. And to tell you the truth, I've been picking up a subtle vibe that she likes you, too.
She does?;Oh yeah, she's crazy about you. All you have to do now is not mess it up.
Well, how do I do that?;The number once mistake nice guys like you make: being too nice.
You can be too nice?;Yep. If you want to keep her interested, you have to act aloof, like you don't really care one way or the other.
See you later ...;Wow, that kid is good.
Excuse me.  Where can a guy find one of those things?;I can't believe you're dragging me all the way up here for a stupid flower.
Not just any flower, a panda lily. I've seen it in action and boy, does it work.;Flowers are fine once you're married, but at this early stage, it's critical that you maintain maximum aloofness.
But my heart is telling me to get this flower,  and Aunt Wu said if I trusted in my heart, I will be with the one I love.;What? Don't tell me you believe in that stuff, too.
Oh no.  Aunt Wu was wrong.;Those people all think they're safe! We've got to warn them!
I know, but still ...;Well, we have other things to worry about. Aunt Wu was wrong about the volcano.
Oh no.;Everyone, that volcano is gonna blow any second! Aunt Wu was wrong!
Please listen to us! You are all in danger! And we have to get out of here! You can't rely on Aunt Wu's prediction,  you have to take fate into your own hands!;Look!  Can your fortune telling explain that?
Can your science explain why it rains?;Yes! Yes, it can!
But they will listen to Aunt Wu!;I know that's the problem.
I found it. The symbol for volcanic doom.;Aunt Wu, look! Something is happening in the clouds.
We still can save the village if we act fast.  Sokka has a plan.;Lava is gonna flow downhill to this spot. If we can dig a deep enough trench we can channel all the lava away from the village to the river.
I'm not!;Everybody else grab a shovel  Come on! We've gotta hurry!
It's too much! It's gonna overflow!;Man, sometimes I forget what a powerful bender that kid is.
Wait, what did you just say?;Nothing, just that Aang is one powerful bender.
Very clever!;No offense, but I hope this taught everyone a lesson about not relying too much on fortune telling.
But Aunt Wu predicted the village wouldn't be destroyed and it wasn't. She was right, after all.;I hate you.
Hey, look!  A sword made out of a whale's tooth.;Let me see that.
No, we found something!;It's burned.  There was a battle! Water Tribe warriors ambushed a group of firebenders.  The firebenders fought back, but the warriors drove them down this hill.
So, then what happened?;I don't know. The trail ends here.
Wait, look!;It's one of our boats!
Is this dad's boat?;No, but it's from his fleet.  Dad was here.
No, but it's from his fleet.  Dad was here.;Aahh!  See Prince Zuko, a moment of quiet is good for your mental well-being.
My shirshu can smell a rat a continent away.;Well, I'm impressed.  Very impressed.
Sokka.;I'm coming with you.
You're not old enough to go to war, Sokka, you know that.;I'm strong, I'm brave, I can fight! Please, Dad!
Being a man is knowing where you're needed the most. And for you right now, that's here, protecting your sister.;I don't understand.
Someday you will.  I'm gonna miss you so much.;Who's there?
Sokka?;Bato?
Hi, I'm Aang.;Where's Dad?
Thank you, it's truly an honor to be here. If there's anything-;What smells so good, Bato?
The sisters craft ointments and perfumes.;Perfume?  Maybe we can dump some on Appa, because he stinks so much.  Am I right?
Bato, it looks like home!;Everything's here, even the pelts!
Help yourself!;Dad could eat a whole barrel of these things!
Hey, I ride animals, too! There was this one time when I rode a giant eel and I-;So, who was it that came up with the Great Blubber Fiasco?
What's that story?;It's a long one Aang, some other time.
Not all of which were hilarious at the time, but everything's funny in hindsight.  Hey, Aang! Please put that down,  it's ceremonial and very fragile.;Was it you or Dad that put an octopus on your head and convinced Gran-Gran you were a water spirit?
Out of my way!  Step aside, filth!;He means no offense! I'm certain you bathe regularly!
Heh, forget it.;Plus, we'll pay your weight in gold.
Make it your  weight, and we gotta deal.;You got it!
Really?;When?
Any day now. Your father said he'd send a message when they found the rendezvous point. If you wait until the message arrives, you can come with me, and see your father again.;It's been over two years since we've seen Dad. That would be so incredible! Katara!
It's been far too long, hasn't it?  I'm not sure when word will arrive, but when it does-;It would be great, but we can't. We have to take Aang to the North Pole first.
This ship is sentimental to me. It was built by my father.;Is this the boat he took you ice dodging in?
Care to hear your fortune, handsome?;At my age, there's really only one big surprise left, and I'd just as soon leave it a mystery.
Ice dodging is a ceremonial test of wisdom, bravery, and trust.  In our village, ice dodging was done by weaving a boat through a field of icebergs.;How are we supposed to ice dodge without ice?
For this is to be done right, I cannot help.  You pass or fail on your own.;Aang, ease up on the jib. Katara, steady.  Aang, less sail. Katara, give him room.  Aang, helm to lee. Helm to lee!
What does that even mean?;Great job!
There's no way through!;We can make it.
Sokka, you've already proven yourself. Maybe we should-;Aang, I'm gonna need air in that sail.  Katara, I want you to bend as much water as you can between us and those rocks. Now!
A messenger gave this to me for Bato.  You have to understand. I was afraid you would-;This is the map to our father! You had it the whole time? How could you?  Well, you can go to the North Pole on your own. I'm going to find Dad.
Well, Sokka. I think you should-;Katara, are you with me?
That wolf sounds so sad.;It's probably wounded.
Sokka?;We need to go back. I wanna see Dad, but, helping Aang is where we're needed the most.
Your father will understand, and I know he's proud of you.;Thanks, Bato.
Where is he? Where is the Avatar?;We split up. He's long gone.
How stupid do you think I am?;Pretty stupid.  Run!
Come on! Get up!;I'm ... starting to get some feeling back!  Ow.
You've got something I want.;That thing sees with its nose. Let's give him something to look at.
The perfume?;June! No!
Uncle? I didn't see you get hit with the tongue.;Shhh.
We're getting you to the North Pole.;Yeah, we've lost too much time as it is.
Don't you want to see your father?;Of course we do, Aang. But, you're our family, too. And right now, you need us more.
This should give us a good idea of what's around here.;See if you can find a menu, I'm starving!
I bet we'll find something to eat here,  the Fire Day's Festival.  Fire Nation cultural exhibits, jugglers, benders, magicians ...  This would be a great place for me to study some real firebenders.;You might wanna rethink that. Look at this.
Hey, a poster of me!;A wanted poster! This is bad.
I guess we could go check it out.;What? You wanna walk into a Fire Nation town where they're all fired-up with their ... you know, fire?
We'll wear disguises and if it looks like trouble, we'll leave.;Yeah! Because we always leave before we get into trouble.
You guys stay out of sight here while we go to the festival.  Ready disguises!;It's like you're a whole different person ...
I think we need some new disguises.;Where are we gonna get masks like that?
Get your genuine Fire Festival masks here!;That was surprisingly easy.
Hey, there's some food.;Finally!  What do you have?
Flaming fire flakes! Best in town.;I'll take'em!
I don't know, but there's a big crowd so it must be good.;Knowing the Fire Nation, it's probably an execution.
Oh! Oh! Me! Me!;What do you think you're doing?
We gotta help her!;No, we don't want to make a scene!
Hey! That kid's the Avatar!;I think it's time to go.
I'm calling Appa.;I hope he can really hear that bison whistle!
Nice touch setting off the fireworks.;You really know your explosives ...
I'm familiar.;You're a Fire Nation Soldier!
I serve a man. More than a man really, he's a myth, but he's real, a living legend, Jeong Jeong the Deserter. He was a Fire Nation general, or wait, was he an admiral?;He was very highly ranked, we get it.
You mean there's a firebender out here who's not with the Fire Lord?  We've gotta go see him! He can train me!;We're not gonna go find some crazy firebender!
He's not crazy! He's a genius! And he's the perfect person to train the Avatar! That's why I followed you into the festival.;Look, thanks for the help, but we're leaving for the North Pole in the morning.
It can't hurt just to talk to him.;That's what you said about going to the festival! Why doesn't anyone ever listen to me?
Jeong Jeong told you not to look for Avatar!;Hold on, you know these guys?
He won't see you. He's very angry that I brought you here. He wants you to leave immediately.;Finally! Let's hit the road.
Silence! Talking is not concentrating! Look at your friend, is she talking?  Even that oaf knows to concentrate on what he's doing!;Hey!
Katara! I'm so sorry!;Katara, what's wrong?  What did you do?!
It was an accident! I was, uh... Katara, I'm so--;I told you we shouldn't mess around with this! Look what you did! You burned my sister!  You burned my sister!  This is all your fault!
Don't worry, men. My old teacher gave up fighting a long time ago.  Haven't you, Master Jeong Jeong?;Katara! Are you all right?
No, but you have.  Jeong Jeong said you had no restraint.  Have a nice walk home!;Aang, come on! Let's go!
Wait! Where's Jeong Jeong?;He disappeared. They all did.
Wow, that's good water.;When did you learn that?
I guess I always knew.;Oh ... Well then thanks for all the first aid over the years. Like when I fell into the greaseberry bramble.  Or that time I had two fishhooks in my thumb!
He tried to get the first fishhook out with another fishhook.;Oh, and the time that mink snake bit me! Thanks for healing that up. That was great. Really helpful.
Jingle, jingle!;Sorry ...
Do you think we'll really find airbenders?;You want me to be like you, or totally honest?
Are you saying I'm a liar?;I'm saying you're an optimist. Same thing, basically.
No, they're not.;What do you mean they're not? Those guys are flying!
I don't know, Aang. That kid seemed pretty spirited.;We better find some solid ground, before it finds us.
Thanks.;Wow! This glider chair is incredible!
You think this is good, wait until you see the other stuff my dad designed.;Wow!
Aang used to come here a long time ago. I think he's a little shocked it's so ... different.;So better!
I suppose that's true. Unfortunately, progress has a way of getting away from us. Look at the time!  Come!  The pulley system must be oiled before dark.;Wait, how can you tell the time from that thing? The notches all look the same.
The candle will tell us. Watch.;You put spark powder in the candle!
Four flashes. So it's exactly four hours past mid-day. Or, as I call it: four o'candle.  If you like that, wait till you see my finger-safe knife sharpener.  Only took me three tries to get it right.;Aaah!
Thanks.;These lanterns are terrible. I can't see!  Why would you want to use fireflies for light?
Cover your nose  and hold your breath.;Okay ... so you brought me all the way down here to see an empty room.
Wrong. It's filled to the brim with natural gas. Came across it my first time here. Unfortunately, I was carrying a torch at the time. Nearly blew my self and the whole place even more sky high! Thought my eyebrows would never grow back.  Anyway, there's a vital problem that needs solving. From time to time, we have gas leaks. And they're nearly impossible to find.;So, this place is an explosion waiting to happen.
I said don't touch anything!  Oh, don't worry. That experiment's old,  and that egg was just part of last week's lunch.;Ugh! Week old egg smell!
I can't believe I'm finally going to see what's inside!;How can something so small that you can't even see it make such a big stink!?
That's the solution to our problem!;Yeah ...  if we put a whole mess of rotten eggs in the cellar where the gas seeps up ...
... The gas will mix with the smell of rotten eggs!;Then, if there's a leak ...
... You smell rotten eggs! Then, you just follow your nose to the place where the smell is coming from ...;And plug up the hole where the gas is escaping!
You're making weapons for the Fire Nation!;You make weapons for the Fire Nation?!
This is bad.;Very bad!
We finally got the war balloon working, thanks to Sokka. This boy's a genius!;Thank you. You're a genius!
Thank you!;See, the problem with the old war balloon was you could get it air-borne,  but once it did, it just kept going.  You could put a hole in the top, but then all the hot air would escape. So the question became, how do you keep a lid on hot air?
Ugh, if only we knew.;A lid is actually the answer. If you control the hot air, you control the war balloon.
Huh, that's actually pretty smart.;Okay, we've got four kinds of bombs:  smoke, slime, fire, and ...
Come on Sokka.  Where's that war balloon?;Hey, why aren't they shooting at us?
The insignia!  They think we're on their side.;Then I guess they won't see this coming.
Bombs away!;Oh no, that was the last one.
Wait a second. You smell that?;Rotten eggs!  There! That's were the gas is escaping.
What are you doing? That's our fuel source.;It's the only bomb we've got.
Look! They're retreating!;We're going down!
No, Sokka! Hold on!;Get ready!
That means a lot, coming from you.;Aang you were right about air power. As long as we've got the skies, we'll have the Fire Nation on the run.
I have an idea! Why don't we all get on your  back and you could fly us to the North Pole?!;I'd love to.  Climb on everyone,  Sokka's ready for take off.
Look, we're all just a little tired and cranky because we've been flying for two days straight.;And for what? We can't even find the Northern Water Tribe.  There's nothing up here.
The Northern Water Tribe.;We're finally here.
This place is beautiful.;Yeah ... she is ...
Yeah ... she is ...;Winter, spring ... Summer, and fall ... Winter, spring ... Summer, and fall ... Four seasons ... four loves ... Four seasons ... for love.
Now, Master Pakku and his students will perform!;Hi there. Sokka, Southern Water Tribe.
Very nice to meet you.;So ... uhhh ... you're a princess, huh?  You know, back in my tribe, I'm kind of like a prince, myself.
Ha, prince of what?;A lot of things! Do you mind? I'm trying to have a conversation here.
My apologies, Prince Sokka.;So, it looks like I'm going to be in town for a while. I'm thinking ... maybe we could ... do an activity, together?
For the last time, I'm not playing the tsungi horn!;No, it's about our plans. There's a bit of a problem.
Uncle, is that true?;I'm afraid so. He's taking everyone ...  even the cook.
Sorry you won't be there to watch me capture the Avatar. But I can't have you getting in my way again.;No!
Have you heard of the Blue Spirit, General Iroh?;Just rumors. I don't think he is real.
Why don't we get started, then?;Princess Yue, good morning! How about that picnic last night? Boy, your dad sure does know how to throw a party.
I'm happy you enjoyed yourself.;Well, it wasn't as much fun after you left.  So, I'm still hoping we can see more of each other.
Do an activity, you mean?;Yes ... at a place ... for some time.
I'd love to. I'll meet you on that bridge tonight.;Great! I'll see you– Ah!
Sorry.;That's okay, it was worth it. See you tonight.
Good luck!;The crew wanted me to wish you safe travels.
Uncle? Uncle, is that you?;Zuko!  Zuko ...
Zuko!  Zuko ...;Hi, Princess Yue. I made you something. I carved it myself.
It's a bear.;Actually, it's supposed to be a fish.  See, it has a fin.
That bad?;No, it's Princess Yue. I don't get it, one minute she wants to go out with me, and the next, she's telling me to get lost.  So, how's waterbending training?
Master Poophead won't teach her because she's a girl.;Why don't you just teach her, Aang?
Why didn't I think of that? At night, you can teach me whatever moves you learn from Master Pakku! That way, you have someone to practice with, and I get to learn waterbending! Everyone's happy!;I'm not happy.
I'm sure she didn't mean that.;Yeah, I think she did.
I'm devastated to hear about Prince Zuko. Just ... devastated.;The Fire Lord will not be pleased when he learns who was responsible.
You know who was behind the attack?;Yes ... pirates. We had a run-in with them a while back. They wanted revenge.
So, have you reconsidered my offer?;Yes, I accept. It will be an honor to serve as your general. To the Fire Nation!
To victory!;Are you crazy, Katara? You're not going to win this fight!
My Gran-Gran was supposed to marry you?;Our plan is working perfectly. Zhao doesn't suspect a thing.
You didn't have to do this.;No nephew of mine is going to stow away on a ship without some backup.
Thank you, Uncle.;Someone's coming. Stay hidden until we get to the North Pole and the Avatar will be yours. Good luck.
What do you want from me?;Nothing. I just want you to know, I think you're beautiful, and, I never thought a girl like you would even notice a guy like me.
You don't understand.;No, no. See, that's the thing. I think I do understand now. You're a Princess, and I'm ... I'm just a Southern peasant.
No, Sokka ...;It's okay. You don't have to say anything. I'll see you around, okay?  Okay, now I'm really confused. Happy, but confused.
So they don't have palaces in the Southern Tribe?;Are you kidding? I grew up in a block of ice. It's not exactly a cultural hub.
Sokka, this is wrong.;What's wrong? We're taking a walk!
I'm engaged. It just feels ...;I know what you need.  You need to meet my good friend, Appa.
Who?;Appa and I go way back, don't we, boy?  Ah, ah, easy! Down boy! Agh! No, up!
So, how does this work?;You holding on tight?  Yip ...  yip.
Oh ... my ... goodness!  Wow, I can't believe you do this every day.;Yeah, we pretty much live up here.
Is it always this cold in the sky?;Not when you're with someone.
It's beautiful up here.;Yeah ...  Woo, yeah! Ahhh, good times, good times.  Hey, look!
What's happening?;Oh no ...
What?;I've seen this before, right before my village was attacked. It's soot mixed with snow.
But, why?;It's the Fire Nation.  They've closed in on the North Pole and from the looks of this stuff,  I'd say there's a lot of them.
This will truly be one for the history books, General Iroh.  Just think, centuries from now, people will study the great Admiral Zhao, who destroyed the last of the Water Tribe civilization. You're lucky you're here to see it.;Be careful what you wish for, Admiral. History is not always kind to its subjects.
I suppose you speak from experience, but rest assured. This will be nothing like your legendary failure at Ba Sing Se.;I hope not, for your sake.
Tell the captains to prepare for first strike.;We'll be landing soon. Do you have a plan?
I'm working on it, Uncle.;What's wrong?  We have to go!
No, Sokka, wait, I can't see you anymore. Not at all.;What? We're just friends.
I wish we could just be friends, but I like you too much and it's too confusing to be around you. I'm marrying someone else!;You don't love him, do you? You don't even seem to like him.
But I do love my people.;You're not marrying them.
The day we have feared for so long has arrived. The Fire Nation is on our doorstep. It is with great sadness I call my family here before me, knowing well that some of these faces are about to vanish from our tribe,  but they will never vanish from our hearts. Now, as we approach the battle for our existence, I call upon the great spirits. Spirit of the Ocean! Spirit of the Moon! Be with us! I'm going to need volunteers for a dangerous mission.;Count me in!
Yip-yip!;Katara!
What's your problem?;Fire Navy uniforms don't look like that.
Of course they do. These are real uniforms captured from actual Fire Navy soldiers.;When, like, a hundred years ago?
Eighty-five.;The Fire Nation doesn't wear shoulder spikes anymore. The newer uniforms are more streamlined.
Sokka is from our sister tribe, Hahn. He's a capable warrior and I value his input.  Now, our first objective is to determine the identity of their commanding officer.;His name is Zhao. Middle-aged,  big sideburns, bigger temper ...
Sokka, I want you to tell everything you know to Hahn. He's leading this mission. Hahn, show Sokka your respect.  I expect nothing less from my future son-in-law.;Princess Yue's marrying you?
Yeah, what of it?;Nothing. Congratulations.
Stop those fireballs!;It's almost twilight, Admiral. As your military consultant, I must advise you to halt your attack.  The waterbenders draw their power from the moon, and it is nearly full tonight. You should wait and resume the attack at daybreak.
I'm just one kid.;If you're fishing for an octopus my nephew, you need a tightly woven net, or he will squeeze through the tiniest hole and escape.
I don't need your wisdom right now, Uncle.;I'm sorry. I just nag you, because ... well,  ever since I lost my son ...
Uncle, you don't have to say it.;... I think of you as my own.
I know, Uncle. We'll meet again.  After I have the Avatar.;Remember your breath of fire. It could save your life out there.
I will.;And put your hood up. Keep your ears warm!
Let me tell you Sokka, I've courted a lot of girls, but Yue is the finest and she comes with the most perks.;Perks? What does that mean?
I mean, Yue's nice and everything, but the points I'll gain with the chief aren't bad either.;Princess Yue is wasted on a self-absorbed weasel like you!
Whoa, hang on. What do you care?  You're just a simple rube from the Southern Tribe. What would you know of the political complexities of our life?  No offense.;You're just a jerk without a soul, no offense!
All right, fall in men! Everybody listen to what I say and we'll take out this Admiral Chō in no time!;It's Admiral Zhao!
Is something wrong, Sokka?;Oh, no. Hahn's out there on the top-secret mission while I'm here sharpening my boomerang. Everything's fine.
Listen to me. I took you off the mission for selfish reasons. I have a special task in mind for you.;What, you want me to scrub the barracks?
I want you to guard my daughter, Princess Yue.;Oh ... Sure. That ... shouldn't be too hard.
Aang!;What happened? Where's Zuko?
He took Aang. He took him right out from under me.;Where did they go ...
I can't believe I lost him.;You did everything you could, and now we need to do everything we can to get him back.  Zuko can't have gotten far. We'll find him. Aang's gonna be fine.
Okay.  It's all right. You stay here, Momo, in case Aang comes back.;Yip, yip.
I finally have you, but I can't get you home because of this blizzard.  There's always something. Not that you would understand. You're like my sister. Everything always came easy to her. She's a firebending prodigy, and everyone adores her. My father says she was born lucky. He says I was lucky to be born. I don't need luck, though. I don't want it. I've always had to struggle and fight and that's made me strong. It's made me who I am.;I don't need to remind you we have a time limit. If we don't defeat the Water Tribe before the full moon rises, they will be undefeatable.
I assure you I have everything under control. I intend to remove the moon as a factor.;Remove the moon? How?
As I was saying, years ago I stumble upon a great and powerful secret: the identity of the Moon Spirit's mortal form.;What?
I was a young lieutenant serving under General Shu in the Earth Kingdom.  I discovered a hidden library. Underground, in fact. I tore through scroll after scroll. One of them contained a detailed illustration, and the words moon and ocean. I knew then that these spirits could be found and killed.  And that it was my destiny to do so.;Zhao, the spirits are not to be trifled with!
I'm not worried they'll get away in the blizzard. I'm worried that they won't.;They're not going to die in this blizzard. If we know anything, it's that Zuko never gives up. They'll survive, and we'll find them.
Trust me Zuko, it's not going to be much of a match.;Hey, this is some quality rope!
Wait, we can't just leave him here.;Sure we can. Let's go.
No, if we leave him he'll die.;Yeah, this makes a lot of sense. Let's bring the guy who's constantly trying to kill us.
I owe the Moon Spirit my life.;What do you mean?
Destroying the moon won't hurt just the Water Tribe.  It will hurt everyone, including you.  Without the moon, everything would fall out of balance. You have no idea what kind of chaos that would unleash on the world.;He is right Zhao.
General Iroh, why am I not surprised to discover your treachery?;I'm no traitor, Zhao, the Fire Nation needs the moon, too; we all depend on the balance. Whatever you do to that spirit I'll unleash on you ten-fold. Let it go, now!
It's too late, it's dead.;You have been touched by the Moon Spirit.  Some of its life is in you.
Yes, you're right. It gave me life, maybe I can give it back.;No! You don't have to do that.
It's my duty, Sokka.;I won't let you!  Your father told me to protect you.
I have to do this.;No! She's gone, she's gone.
The spirits gave me a vision when Yue was born. I saw a beautiful, brave, young woman become the Moon Spirit.  I knew this day would come.;You must be proud.
So proud ... and sad.;I'm surprised Prince Zuko, surprised that you are not at this moment trying to capture the Avatar.
I'm tired.;Then you should rest. A man needs his rest.
Say hi to Gran-Gran for me!;This is what I've been missing. Who knew floating on a piece of driftwood for three weeks with no food or water, and sea vultures waiting to pluck out your liver could make one so tense?  I see. It's the anniversary, isn't it?
Three years ago today, I was banished. I lost it all.  I want it back. I want the Avatar, I want my honor, my throne. I want my father not to think I'm worthless.;I'm sure he doesn't. Why would he banish you if he didn't care?  Uh, that came out wrong, didn't it?
I'll pull us in.;There it is!
Mighty Katara? I like that.;Not bad, not bad.
Why? With the kind of power he possesses, power enough to destroy hundreds of battle ships in a matter of minutes, he could defeat the Fire Lord now!;But sir, the thing is, Aang can only do those things when he's in the Avatar State.
Aang, no! This is not the right way!;Why not? Remember when he took out the Fire Navy?  He was incredible!
There's a right way to do this. Practice, study, and discipline!;Or just glow it up and stop that Fire Lord!
Is it working? Is it working? I can't tell! Somebody tell me if I'm in the Avatar State 'cause I don't have a good view of myself! Am I talking too loud?;I guess he could talk the Fire Lord to death.
We have to find a way.;Look at these magnificent shells!  I'll enjoy these keepsakes for years to come.
Don't call me that!;To what do we owe this honor?
Hmmm ... must be a family trait. Both of you so quick to get to the point.  I've come with a message from home. Father's changed his mind. Family is suddenly very important to him. He's heard rumors of plans to overthrow him; treacherous plots. Family are the only ones you can really trust.  Father regrets your banishment. He wants you home.  Did you hear me? You should be happy. Excited. Grateful. I just gave you great news.;I'm sure your brother simply needs a moment.
We're going home! After three long years, it's unbelievable!;It is unbelievable. I have never known my brother to regret anything.
Did you listen to Azula? Father's realized how important family is to him!  He cares about me!;I care about you! And if Ozai wants you back, well, I think it may not be for the reasons you imagine.
You don't know how my father feels about me. You don't know anything!;Zuko, I only meant that in our family, things are not always what they seem.
Sokka! Sokka, wake up.;Huh?
I don't think we should be trying to bring on the Avatar State.;You sure?
Yes.;Okay.
Do you think the general will be mad?;What can he say? You're the Avatar. Who knows better than you?
What can he say? You're the Avatar. Who knows better than you?;Wait! Don't leave without me!
Uncle! You've changed your mind!;Family sticks together, right?
I see. I was afraid you'd say that.;Aang!
What's going on?;The general's gone crazy! He's trying to force Aang into the Avatar State!
Don't hurt her!;Katara! No!
It worked! It worked!;Zuko! Let's go!
I guess we'll figure it out on the way to the Fire Nation.;Anybody got a problem with that?
Anyone who harbors these traitors will face the wrath of the Fire Lord!  There will be no place left to hide!;I think we're safe here.
What? Like you're ready to go right now, naked guy?;I could be ready in two minutes. Seriously,  whenever.
Aren't we all, brother?;Who are you?
I didn't find anything to eat! I can't live like this! I wasn't meant to be a fugitive.  This is impossible!  Uncle, what are you doing?;You're looking at the rare white dragon bush. Its leaves make a tea so delicious, it's heartbreaking. That, or it's the white jade, which is poisonous.
We need food, not tea. I'm going fishing.;Hmm ... delectable tea?  Or deadly poison?
On the way, there's a waterfall that creates a never-ending rainbow!;Look, I hate to be the wet blanket here, but since Katara is busy, I guess it's up to me.
You got to focus less on the where and more on the going.;O. Ma. Shu!
Oh, it's a real legend. And it's as old as earthbending itself.  Two lovers, forbidden from one another, the war divides their people and the mountain divides them apart! Built a path to be together!  Yeah, I forget the next couple of lines, but then it goes ...  Secret tunnel! Secret tunnel! Through the mountains, secret, secret, secret, secret tunnel! Yeah!;I think we'll just stick with flying. We've dealt with the Fire Nation before. We'll be fine.
Ahhhh!;Secret love cave, let's go.
Secret love cave, let's go.;Zuko,  remember that plant I thought might be tea?
You didn't ...;I did ...  and it wasn't.
Ahh!;When the rash spreads to my throat, I will stop breathing.  But look what I found.  These are bacui berries, known to cure the poison of the white jade.  That, or maka'ole berries that cause blindness.
We're not taking any more chances with these plants! We need to get help.;But where are we going to go?  We're enemies of the Earth Kingdom and fugitives from the Fire Nation.
If the Earth Kingdom discovers us, they'll have us killed.;But if the Fire Nation discovers us, we'll be turned over to Azula.
Earth Kingdom it is.;How far are we from the tunnel?
Actually, it's not just one tunnel. The lovers didn't want anyone to find out about their love, so they built a whole labyrinth!;Labyrinth?
All you need to do is trust in love ... according to the curse.;Curse!
Hey-hey! We're here!;What exactly is this curse?
Oh yeah, and die.  Hey, I just remembered the rest of that song!  And die!;That's it! There's no way we're going through some cursed hole!
That's no campfire, Moku.;It's Fire Nation. They're tracking us.
We can make it.;Everyone into the hole!
It's okay, Appa. We'll be fine. I hope.;We will be fine. All we need is a plan. Chong, how long do those torches last?
And we have five torches, so that's ten hours!;It doesn't work like that if they're all lit at the same time!
Oh, right.;I'm going to make a map to keep track of exactly where we've been. Then we should be able to solve it like a maze and get through.
You two must not be from around here. We know better than to touch the White Jade, much less make it into tea and drink it.;Whoops!
Names? Of course we have names.  I'm, uh ... Lee and this is my Uncle, uh ... Mushi?;Yes, my nephew was named after his father, so we just call him Junior.
That's too bad.  My mom always makes too much roast duck.;Where do you live exactly?
Sokka, this is the tenth dead end you've led us to.;This doesn't make sense. We already came through this way.
Yeah, but I wouldn't mind a map also.;There's something strange here. There's only one explanation.  The tunnels are changing.
The tunnels, they're a-changin'. It must be the curse! I knew we shouldn't have come down here!;Right, if only we listened to you.
Yeah, it's no use. We're separated. But at least you have us!;Nooooo!
Oh, great! Your plans have led us to another dead end!;At least I'm thinking of ideas and trying to get us out of here, Moku.
Whoa, whoa, wait a minute. We're thinking of ideas‌? Because I've had an idea for, like, an hour now.;Yes! We're all thinking of ideas!
Even if you're lost, you can't lose the love because it's in your heart ...;Thank you for the duck. It was excellent.
You're welcome. It brings me pleasure to see someone eat my cooking with such ... gusto.;Much practice.
I know.;What are you doing? These people just showed you great kindness.
Hey! You saved us, Sokka!;No, they were trying to get away from something!
Hey, those things are music lovers!;Badgermoles coming toward me. Come on guys, help me out!
Sokka!;How did you guys get out?
Just like the legend said, we let love lead the way.;Really? We let huge, ferocious beasts lead our way.
Sokka, I hope you learned a little something about not letting the plans get in the way of the journey.;Just play your songs.
Hey! Good plan!  Even if you're lost, you can't lose the love because it's in your heart. Da, da, da ...;The journey was long and annoying, but now you get to see what it's really about: the destination.  I present to you the Earth Kingdom city of O-  Oh no ...
I can't believe it. I know the War has spread far,  but Omashu always seemed ... untouchable.;Up until now it was.  Now Ba Sing Se is the only great Earth Kingdom stronghold left.
No, I'm going in to find Bumi.;Aang, stop. We don't even know if Bumi's still ...
What? If he's still what?;A-around.
This isn't about finding a teacher. This is about finding my friend.;A secret passage? Why didn't we just use this last time?
That answer your question?;Eww!
That wasn't as bad as I thought.;Ahh! They won't let go! Help!
Uh, he has pentapox, sir.  Umm, it's highly contagious.;Oh, it's so awful. I'm dying.
Let's find Bumi and get out of here.;Where would they be keeping him?
Fine. But there's thousands of citizens that need to leave. How're we going to get them all out?;Suckers!
Years of practice.;Okay everyone! Into sick formation.
The universe has given me strong hints that it's time for a career change.  I want to join you on your mission.;No! Bad Fire Nation baby!
It's from the Fire Nation governor. He thinks we kidnapped his son.  So ... he wants to make a trade. His son  for King Bumi.;You realize we're probably walking right into a trap.
We've got to get the baby out of here!;Way ahead of ya!
How are you gonna fight without your bending?;I seem to manage!
There's Aang!;We can catch him!
This is humiliating! We're royalty! These people should be giving us whatever we want.;They will if you ask nicely.  Spare change for a hungry old man?
Aw, here you go.;The coin is appreciated, but not as much as your smile!
We're not performers.;Not professional anyway.  It's a long, long way to Ba Sing Se, but the girls in the city, they look so pretty!
Come on, we're talking a gold piece here! Let's see some action!  Dance!;They kiss so sweet that you really got to meet the girls from Ba Sing Se!
Ha, ha! Nothing like a fat man dancing for his dinner! Here ya go!;Such a kind man.
Such a kind man.;Hey, you taking us down for a reason?  Aang,  why are we going down?
What? I didn't even notice.;Are you noticing now?
I know this is going to sound weird, but I think the swamp is calling to me.;Is it telling you where we can get something to eat?
No, I ... I think it wants us to land there.;No offense to the swamp, but I don't see any land there to land on.
I don't know. Bumi said to learn earthbending I would have to wait and listen, and now I'm actually hearing the earth. Do you want me to ignore it?;Yes.
I don't know. There's something ominous about that place.;See, even Appa and Momo don't like it here.
Okay, since everyone feels so strongly about this,  bye swamp.  Yip, Yip!;You better throw in an extra yip! We gotta move!
Sokka, you've got an elbow leech.;Where? Where?
Where do you think?;Why do things keep attaching to me?!
No, and the tornado ... it just disappeared.;We better speed things up.
Maybe we should be a little nicer to the swamp.;Aang, these are just plants. Do you want me to say please and thank you as I swing my machete back and forth?
Maybe you should listen to Aang. Something about this place feels ... alive.;I'm sure there are lots of things that are alive here and if we don't wanna wind up getting eaten by them, we need to find Appa as fast as we can.
Appa! Momo!;There's no way they can hear us and no way we can see them. We'll have to make camp for the night.
What was that?;Nothing, just swamp gas.  Look, there's nothing supernatural going on here.
Sokka, the longer we're here, the more I think you shouldn't be doing do that.;No, I asked the swamp. It said this was fine.  Right, swamp?  No problem, Sokka!
Does anyone else get the feeling that we're being watched?;Please, we're all alone out here.
Except for them.;Right, except for them.
I can't believe ...;Aang!  Stupid swamp! Dumb, ugly vines! Katara!  You think you're so tough, huh?
Who are you?;What do you guys think you're doing!? I've been looking all over for you!
I don't know. I heard laughing and I saw some girl in a fancy dress.;Well, there must be a tea party here and we just didn't get our invitations!
I thought I saw Mom.;Look, we were all just scared and hungry and our minds were playing tricks on us. That's why we all saw things out here.
You saw something too?;I thought I saw Yue. But, that doesn't prove anything. Look, I think about her all the time, and you saw Mom, someone you miss a lot.
Yeah, the center ... it's the heart of the swamp. It's been calling us here. I knew it.;It's just a tree.  It can't call anyone. For the last time, there's nothing after us and there's nothing magical happening here.
Now, what would a lemoo need a shirt fer?;There's someone in there! He's bending the vines!
We were flying over and I heard something calling to me, telling me to land.;He's the Avatar. Stuff like that happens to us a lot.
I protect the swamp from folks that want to hurt it, like this fella with his big knife.;See, completely reasonable.  Not a monster, just a regular guy defending his home. Nothing mystical about it.
Oh the swamp is a mystical place all right. It's sacred. I reached enlightenment right here under the banyan-grove tree.  I heard it calling me, just like you did.;Sure you did. It seems real chatty.
Time is an illusion. So, it's someone I will meet.;Sorry to interrupt the lesson, but we still need to find Appa and Momo.
You know, scared some folks, swung some vines, the usual.;Huu?
How you like that possum chicken?;Tastes just like arctic hen. So why were you guys so interested in eating Appa?  You've got plenty of those big things wandering around.
You want me to eat old Slim? He's like a member of the family!;Nice Slim!
Hmm. No wonder you left.;Well, I hope you realize now that nothing strange was going on here.  Just a bunch of greasy people living in a swamp.
What about the visions?;I told you, we were hungry. I'm eating a giant bug!
But what about when the tree showed me where Appa and Momo were?;That's Avatar stuff, that doesn't count.  The only thing I can't figure out is how you made that tornado that sucked us down.
I can't do anything like that. I just bend the water in the plants.;Well, no accounting for weather. Still, there's absolutely nothing mysterious about the swamp.
Give up! You're completely surrounded!;Come on! Come on! Come on!
Yip yip!;Wait, my boomerang!
There's no time!;Oh, I see,  so there's time to get your scrolls  and time to get your staff,  but no time for my boomerang?
That's correct!;Oh.
Sorry about your boomerang, Sokka.;I feel like I've lost part of my identity.  Imagine if you lost your arrow, or Katara lost her ...  hair loopies.
Here's your produce, ponytail guy.;I used to be boomerang guy ...
Look! They made a giant Kyoshi float!;And here comes Avatar Roku!
Having a huge festival in your honor is great, but frankly, it's just nice to be appreciated.;And it's nice to appreciate their deep-fried festival food!
That's the biggest me I've ever seen!;Now a torch, that's a nice prop. It's bright, dangerous ...  smells manly. But I'm not sure I could carry it off.
Down with the Avatar!;Where did you get these?
What does it matter where they came from?;Mmmm ...  ... mmmm!
How was I supposed to know they wouldn't take Water Tribe money?;So some people don't like you, big deal! There's a whole nation of firebenders who hate you. Now let's bust you out of here!
I can't.;Sure you can! A little  swish-swish-swish!  Airbending slice!  And we're on our way!
I can't do that with people thinking I'm a murderer either. I need you guys to help prove my innocence.;How're we gonna to do that? The crime happened over three hundred years ago.
That's okay, Sokka. For some reason, I thought you were an expert detective.;Well, I guess I could be classified as such.
Yeah! Back home, he was famous for solving the mystery of the missing seal jerky.;Everyone wanted to blame it on the polar leopard, but I figured out it was Old Man Jarko wearing polar leopard boots!  See, a real eight hundred-pound polar leopard would have left much deeper tracks.  Okay, I guess I am pretty good.
So, you'll help me with my case?;Fine! But I'm going to need some new props.  I'm ready.  What?
This is the crime scene.  This is the footprint of the killer, Kyoshi.  It was at sunset, 370 years ago today, that she emerged from the temple, and struck down Chin the Great. After that tragic day, we built this statue to immortalize our great leader.  Feel free to appreciate it.;This temple and this statue were cut from the same stone.  And we know that the statue was built after Chin died.
So if they were built at the same time, that means–;Shhh! I wanna solve it!  That means Kyoshi never set foot in this temple!
That's a big hole in the mayor's story,  but it's not enough to prove Aang's innocence.;You're right.  We need to go to Kyoshi Island.
Oyaji! Aang is in jail. The town of Chin says he murdered their leader in a past life.;They say it was Kyoshi.
Kyoshi? That's crazy talk! I'll take you to her shrine. Maybe something there will help you clear her name.;So, uh ... what's Suki up to? Is she around?
Actually, she and the other warriors left to fight in the war. You kids had a big impact on Suki. She said you inspired her and she wanted to help change the world.;Oh, well ... that's great.
Please don't touch!;These fans ...  They were her weapons, no?
Wait a minute ... big feet?  Little footprint?  There's no way–;Special outfit? Hat and pipe? These things mean anything to you?
You're right. I'm sorry.  Please.;Aha!  There's no way Kyoshi could have made that footprint.  And therefore there is nothing linking her to the crime scene.
This piece is called The Birth of Kyoshi.  It was painted at sunrise on this day this island was founded. Why, it was today in fact, three hundred and seventy years ago.;Three hundred and seventy years? Wait,  are you sure it was today?
Oh, seeing how it's Kyoshi Day, yes,  I'm sure.;This ceremony didn't take place at sunrise. It took place at sunset.  Look at the shadows.
So what?;If Kyoshi was in the ceremony at sunset, she couldn't have been in Chin committing the crime. She has an alibi!
The accused will now present its argument.;You can do it, Aang. Just remember the evidence.
Right ... evidence.  Ladies and gentlemen ... I'm about to tell you what really happened. And I will prove it with facts. Fact number one.  Uhhh ...;The footprint!
Oh, yeah. You see ... I have very large feet.  Furthermore ... your temple matches your statue.  But ... I was in a painting at sunset.  So, there you have it, I'm not guilty.;He's dead.
He's dead.;Looks like you did some serious shopping.  But where did you get the money?
Do you like your new teapot?;To be honest with you , the best tea tastes delicious whether it comes in a porcelain pot or a tin cup.  I know we've had some difficult times lately. We've had to struggle just to get by.  But it's nothing to be ashamed of. There is a simple honor in poverty.
There's no honor for me without the Avatar.;Zuko ...  Even if you did capture the Avatar, I'm not so sure it would solve our problems. Not now.
Then there is no hope at all.;No, Zuko! You must never give in to despair. Allow yourself to slip down that road and you surrender to your lowest instincts.  In the darkest times, hope is something you give yourself. That is the meaning of inner strength.
This isn't just any witness. I'm going to call ...  Avatar Kyoshi herself!;What are you doing?
Well, she is Aang's past life. Maybe wearing her stuff will trigger something.;I do believe in the power of stuff.
Uncle ...  I thought a lot about what you said.;You did? Good, good.
It's helped me realize something. We no longer have anything to gain by traveling together.  I need to find my own way.;Wait!
Rough Rhinos, to the town!;Boomerang! You do always come back!
From now on, we'll celebrate a new Avatar Day in honor of the day Avatar Aang  saved us from the Rough Rhino Invasion.;What is this?
Happy Avatar Day, everyone!;This is by far the worst town we've ever been to.
Then you should get it, you deserve something nice.;I do, don't I?  But no, it's too expensive. I shouldn't.
All right, then don't.;You know what? I'm gonna get it.
It's on the island of Noneya ... Noneya business!;Oh, I got to remember that one!
I'll take care of this.  Hey, strong guys! Wait up!;What was I thinking?  I don't need a new bag! Why did you let me buy this?
Hey, front row seats! I wonder why no one else is sitting here.;I guess that's why.
This is just going to be a bunch of guys chucking rocks at each other, isn't it?;That's what I paid for.
Please, to rise for Fire Nation national anthem!  Fire Lord, my flame burns  for thee!;Go back to the Fire Nation!
No, no, please!;Yeah! Wooo!  The Boulder knows how to put the hurt in the dirt!  Yeah! Woohoo!
I think she is.;I think she is ...  going down!
The Boulder feels conflicted about fighting a young blind girl.;Sounds to me like you're  scared, Boulder!
The Boulder's over his conflicted feelings,  and now he's ready to bury you screen  in a rock-alanche!;Whenever you're ready, The Pebble!
I will!;Go Aang! Avenge The Boulder!
Go Aang! Avenge The Boulder!;Do people really want to see two little girls fighting out here?
I don't really want to fight you. I want to talk to you.;Boo! No  talking!
Don't boo at him!;Somebody's a little light on his feet! What's your fighting name:  the Fancy Dancer?  Where'd you go?
Please, wait!;There you are!
Please, listen! I need an earthbending teacher, and I think it's supposed to be you!;Whoever you are, just leave me alone.
Wait!;Way to go, champ!
Yeah, I didn't think so.;Nicely done.
Hey, I got my eye on you.;Water Tribe.
That's the flying boar from my vision. Come on!;What are you doing here, Twinkle Toes?!
How did you know it was me?;Don't answer to Twinkle Toes, it's not manly!
You're the one whose bag matches his belt.;How did you find me?
What Aang is trying to say is, he's the Avatar. And if he doesn't master earthbending soon, he won't be able to defeat the Fire Lord.;Not my problem. Now,  get out of here, or I'll call the guards.
Not my problem. Now,  get out of here, or I'll call the guards.;Look, we all have to do our part to win this war, and yours is to teach Aang earthbending.
Look, we all have to do our part to win this war, and yours is to teach Aang earthbending.;Guards! Guards, help!
Toph, what happened?;I ... thought I heard someone. I got scared.
Oh, I'm sure she's better than you think she is.;What's your problem?!
Good night, buddy.;Relax. Look, I'm sorry about dinner. Let's call a truce, okay?  Even though I was born blind, I've never had a problem seeing.  I see with earthbending. It's kind of like seeing with my feet. I feel the vibrations in the Earth, and I can see where everything is.  You, that tree ...  even those ants.
That's amazing.;My parents don't understand. They've always treated me like I was helpless.
Is that why you became the Blind Bandit?;Yeah.
Then why stay here where you're not happy?;They're my parents. Where else am I supposed to go?
You could come with us.;Yeah. You guys get to go wherever you want. No one telling you what to do, that's the life. It's just not my life.  We're being ambushed!
I think you kids owe me some money.;Whoever took Aang and Toph left this.
If you want to see your daughter again, bring five hundred gold pieces to the arena. It's signed Xin Fu and The Boulder.;I can't believe it ...  I have The Boulder's autograph!
Poor Toph, she must be so scared ...;You think you're so tough?  Why don't you come up here so I can snap that grin off your face?
Toph!;Here's your money.  Now let them go.
My daughter is blind. She is blind and tiny and helpless and fragile. She cannot help you!;Yes, I can.
The Boulder takes issue with that comment.;Wait!  They're mine.
Hit it harder!;I'm trying!
She's the greatest earthbender I've ever seen.;Dad, I know it's probably hard for you to see me this way. But the obedient little helpless blind girl that you think I am just isn't me. I love fighting. I love being an earthbender, and I'm really, really good at it. I know I've kept my life secret from you, but you were keeping me secret from the whole world. You were doing it to protect me, but I'm twelve years old and I've never had a real friend. So, now that you see who I really am, I hope it doesn't change the way you feel about me.
Of course it doesn't change the way I feel about you, Toph. It's made me realize something.;It has?
Yes. I've let you had far too much freedom. From now on you'll be cared for and guarded twenty-four hours a day.;But, Dad!
I'm sorry, Toph.;I'm sorry too. Goodbye, Aang.
Toph! What are you doing here?;My dad changed his mind. He said I was free to travel the world.
My dad changed his mind. He said I was free to travel the world.;Well, we'd better get out of here, before your dad changes his mind again.
Well, we'd better get out of here, before your dad changes his mind again.;Good idea.
You're going to be a great teacher, Toph.;Speaking of which, I want to show you something.
Okay.;Now we're even. Um, I'll take the belt back.
Ow!;Sorry.
Girls are crazy!;If the city is as magnificent as its wall, Ba Sing Se must be something to behold. I hope you all may see it someday, if we don't burn it to the ground first!
Hey! You guys picked a great campsite.  The grass is so soft.;That's not grass.   Appa's shedding.
Stop! Appa, stop! Ugh!;It's not that bad, Katara.  It makes a great wig!
I'm just glad we finally have another girl in the group, because you two are disgusting.;Excuse me, does anyone have a razor? Because I've got some hairy pits!
So Toph, usually when setting up camp, we try to divide up the work.;Hey, don't worry about me. I'm good to go.
Well, actually what I'm trying to say is,  some of us might fetch water, while someone else might set up the fire pit, or put up the tent.  Even Momo does his fair share.;Katara, I'm fine. I can carry my own weight. I don't need a fire,  I've already collected my own food and look,  my tent's all set up.
Well, that's great for you, but we still need to finish -;I don't understand what's the problem here!
Hey Toph, I wanted to apologize for earlier. I think we're all just a little tired and getting on each other's nerves.;Yeah, you do seem pretty tired.
I meant all of us.;Well, good night.
Good night.;There's something coming toward us!
What is it?;It feels like an avalanche, but also not an avalanche.
It feels like an avalanche, but also not an avalanche.;Your powers of perception are frightening.
What is that thing?;Ah, land sweet land!  See you guys in the morning!
Actually, can you help us unload?;Really? You need me to help unload Sokka's funky-smelling sleeping bag?
Well, yeah. That and everything else. You're a part of our team now, and -;Look! I didn't ask you to help unload my stuff!  I'm carrying my own weight.
That's not the point.  Ever since you joined us, you've been nothing but selfish and unhelpful!;What? Look here, sugar queen,  I gave up everything I had so that I could teach Aang earthbending. So don't you talk to me about being selfish!
Should we do something?;Hey, I'm just enjoying the show.
The stars sure are beautiful tonight. Too bad you can't see them, Toph!;Hey, how's a guy supposed to sleep with all this yelling  and earthquaking?
Hey, how's a guy supposed to sleep with all this yelling  and earthquaking?;That thing is back!
That thing is back!;Well, how far away is it?  Maybe we can close our eyes just for a few minutes.
Seriously, what is that thing?;And how does it keep finding us?
I don't know. But this time, I'm going to make sure we lose it.;Okay, forget about setting up camp.  I'm finding the softest pile of dirt and going to sleep.
That's good because Toph wasn't going to help anyway!;Oh, I didn't realize the baby still needed someone to tuck her in bed.
It could be Zuko.  We haven't seem him since the North Pole.;Who's Zuko?
Who's Zuko?;Oh, just some angry freak with a ponytail who's tracked us all over the world.
What's wrong with ponytails, Ponytail?;This is a warrior's wolf tail.
Well, it certainly tells the other warriors that you're fun and perky.;Anyway, whoever's chasing us couldn't have followed us here, so, now would everyone just shhh?
That's impossible. There's no way they could have tracked us.;I can feel it with my own two feet!
Maybe we should face them. Find out who they are. Who knows, maybe they're friendly.;Always the optimist ...
It's those three girls from Omashu!;We can take them. Three on three.
We can take them. Three on three.;Actually Toph, there's four of us.
Actually Toph, there's four of us.;Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't count you. You know, no bending and all.
Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't count you. You know, no bending and all.;I can still fight!
I can still fight!;Okay, three on three plus Sokka.
Okay, three on three plus Sokka.;Errrgh!
I can't believe those girls followed us all the way from Omashu.;I still think we could have taken them.
Are you kidding me?  The crazy blue firebending and the flying daggers are bad enough, but last time we saw them, one of those girls did something that took my bending away. That's scary.;Oh no, the sun is rising. We've been up all night with no sleep!
Sokka, we'll be okay.;Are you sure? I've never not slept before!  What if I fall asleep now and something happens?  And something always happens!
So what's our plan?;Don't know ... too tired to think.
I'm sure we'll come up with something after a short nap.;Yes ... sleep.
Yes ... sleep.;What's going on?
Appa's exhausted.;Okay, we've put in a lot of distance between us and them. The plan right now is to follow Appa's lead and get some sleep.
Of course, we could've gotten some sleep earlier,  if Toph didn't have such issues.;What!?
All right, all right, everyone's exhausted! Let's just get some rest.;No, I want to hear what Katara has to say. You think I have issues?
I'm just saying. Maybe if you helped out earlier, we could have set up our camp faster and gotten some sleep  and then maybe we wouldn't be in this situation!;You're blaming me for this?
No, I'm blaming her!;Hey,  I never asked you for diddly-doo-dah.  I carry my own weight. Besides, if there's anyone to blame, it's Sheddy over here!
What? You're blaming Appa?;Yeah, you want to know how they keep finding us?  He's leaving a trail everywhere we go!
How dare you blame Appa! He saved your life three times today! If there's anyone to blame it's you! You're always talking about how you carry your own weight, but you're not. He is! Appa's carrying your weight. He never had a problem flying when it was just the three of us!;I'm out of here.
I'm out of here.;Wait!
I know. We're all just trying to get used to each other. And I was so mean to her.;Yeah, you two were pretty much jerks.
Thanks, Sokka.;No problem.
We need to find Toph and apologize.;Okay, but what are we going to do about the tank full of dangerous ladies chasing us?
He'll be fine as long as we leave his saddle and all our stuff here.  I'm going to use Appa's fur to make a fake trail to lead the tank off-course.;Ow ... That really hurt my tailbone.
The Avatar's trying to give us the slip.  You two head in that direction and keep your eye out for the bison.  I'll follow this trail.;Toph couldn't have made it too far.  What is it, Momo? Ooooh, no! Katara!
How did they find us?;Appa, come on, we need to go faster!
He's too tired!;Not good, not good!  We just need to make it across that river!
Come on Appa, just a little further ...;We made it! We're safe.
You did it Appa!;Good try, but no.
I thought when Ty Lee and I finally caught you guys, it would be more exciting. Oh well, victory is boring.;Thanks Appa, I don't know what we'd do without you.
I'm not running.;Here is your tea.  You seem a little too young to be traveling alone.
Here is your tea.  You seem a little too young to be traveling alone.;You seem a little too old.
You seem a little too old.;Perhaps I am.
Perhaps I am.;I know what you're thinking ... I look like I can't handle being by myself.
I know what you're thinking ... I look like I can't handle being by myself.;I wasn't thinking that.
I wasn't thinking that.;You wouldn't even let me pour my own cup of tea!
You wouldn't even let me pour my own cup of tea!;I poured your tea because I wanted to and for no other reason.
I poured your tea because I wanted to and for no other reason.;People see me and think I'm weak. They want to take care of me, but I can take care of myself, by myself.
People see me and think I'm weak. They want to take care of me, but I can take care of myself, by myself.;You sound like my nephew, always thinking you need to do things on your own, without anyone's support. There is nothing wrong with letting the people who love you help you. Not that I love you, I just met you.
You sound like my nephew, always thinking you need to do things on your own, without anyone's support. There is nothing wrong with letting the people who love you help you. Not that I love you, I just met you.;So where is your nephew?
So where is your nephew?;I've been tracking him actually.
I've been tracking him actually.;Is he lost?
Is he lost?;Yes, a little bit.  His life has recently changed and he's going through very difficult times. He's trying to figure out who he is and he went away.
Yes, a little bit.  His life has recently changed and he's going through very difficult times. He's trying to figure out who he is and he went away.;So now you're following him.
So now you're following him.;I know he doesn't want me around him right now, but if he needs me, I'll be there.
I know he doesn't want me around him right now, but if he needs me, I'll be there.;Your nephew is very lucky, even if he doesn't know it.  Thank you.
Your nephew is very lucky, even if he doesn't know it.  Thank you.;My pleasure. Sharing tea with a fascinating stranger is one of life's true delights.
My pleasure. Sharing tea with a fascinating stranger is one of life's true delights.;No, thank you for what you said. It helped me.
No, thank you for what you said. It helped me.;I'm glad.
I'm glad.;Oh, and about your nephew, maybe you should tell him that you need him, too.
Uncle ...;Get up!
Get up!;I thought you guys could use a little help.
Today's the day!  Can you believe it? After all that time searching for a teacher, I'm finally starting earthbending!  And this place,  it's perfect, don't you think? Sokka?  Oh, you're still sleeping, huh?  Sorry.;Goooood morning,  earthbending student!
Well, if you think I should ...;Sorry, Snoozles, we'll do our earthbending as  quietly as we can.
So what move are you going to teach me first?  Rock-a-lanche?  The Trembler? Oh, maybe I could learn to make a  whirlpool out of land!;Let's start with ...  move a rock.
Sounds good, sounds good!;The key to earthbending is your stance. You've got to be steady and strong. Rock is a stubborn element. If you're going to move it, you've got to be like a rock yourself.
Like a rock. Got it.;Good. Now the actual motion of this one is pretty simple.  Okay, you ready to give it a try?
I'm ready.;Rock beats airbender!
I got you, Dad!;My beloved Lu Ten, I will see you again.
Uncle ... you were unconscious. Azula did this to you. It was a surprise attack.;Somehow, that's not so surprising.
I hope I made it the way you like it.;Good. That was very ... uhhh ... bracing.
So Uncle, I've been thinking. It's only a matter of time before I run into Azula again. I'm going to need to know more advanced firebending if I want to stand a chance against her. I know what you're going to say: she's my sister and I should be trying to get along with her.;No, she's crazy, and she needs to go down.  It's time to resume your training.
Maybe there's another way ... what if I came at the boulder from another angle?;No. That's the problem. You've got to stop thinking like an airbender. There's no different angle, no clever solution, no trickety-trick that's going to move that rock. You've got to face it head on. And when I say head on, I mean like this ...
I've been training Aang for a while now. He really responds well to a positive teaching experience. Lots of encouragement and praise. Kind words. If he's doing something wrong, maybe a gentle nudge in the right direction.;Thanks, Katara. A gentle nudge. I'll try that.  Keep your knees high, Twinkle Toes!
Rock-like!;You're awfully cute, but unfortunately you're made of meat. Just a bit closer ...  Gotcha!  You are one lucky little meat creature.
You're awfully cute, but unfortunately you're made of meat. Just a bit closer ...  Gotcha!  You are one lucky little meat creature.;Lightning is a pure form of firebending, without aggression. It is not fueled by rage or emotion the way other firebending is. Some call lightning the cold-blooded fire. It is precise and deadly, like Azula. To perform the technique requires peace of mind.
I see. That's why we're drinking tea, to calm the mind.;Oh yeah, good point! I mean, yes.  There is energy all around us. The energy is both yin and yang. Positive energy and negative energy. Only a select few firebenders can separate these energies. This creates an imbalance. The energy wants to restore balance, and in a moment the positive and negative energy come crashing back together, you provide release and guidance, creating lightning.
I'm ready to try it!;Remember, once you separate the energy, you do not command it. You are simply its humble guide. Breathe first.
Remember, once you separate the energy, you do not command it. You are simply its humble guide. Breathe first.;This time we're going to try something a little different. Instead of moving a rock, you're going to stop a rock. Get in your horse stance! I'm going to roll that boulder down at you. If you have the attitude of an earthbender, you'll stay in your stance and stop the rock. Like this!
Sorry Toph, but are you really sure this is the way to teach Aang earthbending?;I'm glad you said something. Actually there is a better way.  This way, you'll actually have to sense the vibrations of the boulder to stop it. Thank you, Katara.
I guess I just panicked. I don't know what to say.;There's nothing to say, you blew it! You had a perfect stance, and a perfect form. But when it came right down to it, you didn't have the guts!
I know. I'm sorry.;Yeah, you are sorry! If you're not tough enough to stop the rock, then you can at least give it the pleasure of smashing you instead of jumping out of the way like a jelly-boned wimp! Now, do you have what it takes to face that rock like an earthbender?
Yeah, that sounds good.;Yeah, whatever, go splash around until you feel better.
Why can't I do it? Instead of lightning it keeps exploding in my face ... like everything always does.;I was afraid this might happen. You will not be able to master lightning until you have dealt with the turmoil inside you.
What turmoil?;Zuko, you must let go of your feelings of shame if you want your anger to go away.
But I don't feel any shame at all. I'm as proud as ever.;Prince Zuko, pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source. True humility is the only antidote to shame.
Well, my life has been nothing but humbling lately.;I have another idea. I will teach you a firebending move that even Azula doesn't know, because I made it up myself.
I have another idea. I will teach you a firebending move that even Azula doesn't know, because I made it up myself.;You probably think I deserve this, don't you? Look, I'm sorry I hunted you, but that's just the natural order of things. Big things eat smaller things, nothing personal. But this time it didn't work out that way. I admit it ... you're cute. Okay, you convinced me, if I get out of this alive, it's a karmically correct, vegetarian existence for me. No meat. Even though meat is so tasty.  Hey, looks like my karma is already paying off! That's okay, I got it.  Now, come back boomerang.
Thanks, Katara. Sifu Katara.;Fire is the element of power.  The people of the Fire Nation have desire and will, and the energy to drive and achieve what they want. Earth is the element of substance.  The people of the Earth Kingdom are diverse and strong. They are persistent and enduring. Air is the element of freedom.  The Air Nomads detached themselves from worldly concerns and found peace and freedom. Also, they apparently had pretty good senses of humor!  Water is the element of change.  The people of the Water Tribe are capable of adapting to many things. They have a deep sense of community and love that holds them together through anything.
Why are you telling me these things?;It is important to draw wisdom from many different places. If you take it from only one place, it becomes rigid and stale.  Understanding others, the other elements, and the other nations will help you become whole.
All this four elements talk is sounding like Avatar stuff.;It is the combination of the four elements in one person that makes the Avatar so powerful. But it can make you more powerful, too. You see the technique I'm about to teach you is one I learned by studying the waterbenders.
It is the combination of the four elements in one person that makes the Avatar so powerful. But it can make you more powerful, too. You see the technique I'm about to teach you is one I learned by studying the waterbenders.;Aang, I found these nuts in your bag. I figured you wouldn't mind. And besides, even if you did, you're too much of a pushover to do anything about it.
As a matter of fact, I don't mind. I'm happy to share anything I have.;You know, I'm really glad you feel that way. Because I also have this great new nutcracker.
Actually, I prefer if you didn't ...  That's an antique, handcrafted by the monks ...  It's a delicate instrument!;It's not the only delicate instrument around here.
We'll find him faster if we split up.;Okay, karma person or thing, whoever's in charge of this stuff. If I can just get out of this situation alive, I will give up meat and sarcasm. Okay?  Ow! That's all I got. It's pretty much my whole identity. Sokka, the meat and sarcasm guy. But I'm willing to be Sokka, the veggies and straight talk fellow. Deal?  Aang! Thank goodness! Have you got any meat?
Sokka! Are you okay?;Aggh, stop, stop! You're going to pull my fingers off and I don't think the rest of me is coming!
Hmmm ... I bet I can airbend you out of here.;Seriously Aang, I know you're new at it, but I could use a little earthbending here. How about it?
I can't ... I can't do it.;Well, if you can't earthbend me out of here, go get Toph.
I can't do that either.;You can't? Why not?
It would just be really ... uncomfortable.;Uncomfortable?  Well, I wouldn't want you to feel uncomfortable ...
Thanks, Sokka. This whole earthbending thing really has me confused. There's so much pressure. Everyone expects me to get it right away. It puts me in a really awkward position.;Awkward position, I think I know the feeling.
If I try, I fail. If I don't try, I'm never going to get it. I feel like I'm caught between a rock and a hard place.;Hmmm ... how about that. Aang, this is my friend, Foo Foo Cuddlypoops. Foo Foo Cuddlypoops, Aang.
Awww, what a cute name for a baby saber-tooth moose-lion cub.;Really? He looks nothing like a saber-tooth moose-lion.
It's hard to tell before their giant teeth and horns grow in. What are you doing out here little guy? Did you lose your mama?;Waterbenders deal with the flow of energy. A waterbender lets their defense become their offense, turning their opponents' energy against them. I learned a way to do this with lightning.
You can teach me to redirect lightning?;If you let the energy in your own body flow, the lightning will follow it. You must create a pathway from your fingertips, up your arm to your shoulder, then down into your stomach. The stomach is the source of energy in your body. It is called the sea of chi. Only in my case it is more like a vast ocean.  From the stomach, you direct it up again, and out the other arm. The stomach detour is critical. You must not let the lightning pass through your heart, or the damage could be deadly. You may wish to try a physical motion, to get a feel for the pathways' flow, like this.  Now, are you focusing your energy? Can you feel your own chi flowing in, down, up, and out?
I think so.;Come on, you've got to feel the flow.  Excellent! You've got it!
Great, I'm ready to try it with real lightning!;What, are you crazy? Lightning is very dangerous!
I thought that was the point! You teaching me to protect myself from it!;Yeah! But I'm not going to shoot lightning at you! If you're lucky, you will never have to use this technique at all!
Hey there, we found your cub! See, we have no problem with you! We're friendly!;Aang, this is bad, you've got to get me out of here!
Oh no!  Woo-hoo, look at me!;Please, don't leave me again.
I won't.;What are you doing here?
What are you doing here?;Just enjoying the show.
What? You were there the whole time?;Pretty much.
Why didn't you do something? Sokka was in trouble! I was in trouble! You could have gotten him out and helped us get away!;Guess it just didn't occur to me.
Enough! I want my staff back!;Do it now!
What?;Earthbend, Twinkle Toes. You just stood your ground against a crazy beast. And even more impressive, you stood your ground against me. You've got stuff.
But–;Do it!
I can't believe it!;Awww, this is a really wonderful, touching moment. So could you get me out of here so I can give you both a big, snuggly hug?
No problem, Sokka!;Actually, you should probably let me do that. You're still a little new to this. You might accidentally crush him.
Actually, you should probably let me do that. You're still a little new to this. You might accidentally crush him.;Yeah, no crushing, please.
You found him!;The whole time, I was in that hole, not knowing if I was going to live or die. It makes a man to think about what's really important. I realized–
You did it! I knew you would!  You tried the positive reinforcement, didn't you?;Yep, it worked wonders.
What's out here?;A lot, actually. There's hundreds of little ...
Shh! I know you can see underground, but don't ruin the surprise. Just watch.  Yeah!  I'm putting an orchestra together.;Orchestra, huh? Well, la-di-da.
This is great and all, but don't we have more important things to worry about? We should be making plans.;We did make plans. We're all picking mini-vacations.
We did make plans. We're all picking mini-vacations.;There's no time for vacations.
Yeah, what's wrong with having a little fun in our down time?;Even if you do master all of the elements, then what? It's not like we have a map of the Fire Nation.  Should we just head west until we reach the Fire Lord's house?  Knock, knock. Hello, Fire Lord? Anybody home? I don't think so. We need some intelligence if we're going to win this war.
One mango, please.;I don't see anything wrong with having one of those fruity beverages while we plan our strategy.  Excuse me.
Oh, truly fascinating. That is one for the journal.;So Professor, you're obviously a well-traveled guy. Do you have a more current map? Ours seems to be a little dated.
Certainly.;What, no Fire Nation?  Doesn't anybody have a good map of that place?
All in vain, I'm afraid. I've found lost civilizations all over the Earth Kingdom,  but I haven't managed to find the crown jewel: Wan Shi Tong's Library.;You spent years walking through the desert to find some guy's library?
This library is more valuable than gold, little lady. It is said to contain a vast collection of knowledge, and knowledge is priceless.;Hmm, sounds like good times.
Oh, it is. According to legend, it was built by the great Knowledge Spirit, Wan Shi Tong, with the help of his foxy knowledge seekers.;Oh, so this spirit has attractive assistants, huh?
You're both right.  Handsome little creatures.  Wan Shi Tong and his knowledge seekers collected books from all over the world, and put them on display for mankind to read, so that we might better ourselves.;If this place has books from all over the world,  do you think they've got info on the Fire Nation? A map, maybe?
I wouldn't know. But if such a thing exists, it's in Wan Shi Tong's Library.;Then it's settled. Aang, I do believe it's my turn. I'd like to spend my vacation  at the library!
Then it's settled. Aang, I do believe it's my turn. I'd like to spend my vacation  at the library!;Uh, hey, what about me? When do I get to pick?
Uh, hey, what about me? When do I get to pick?;You gotta work here a little longer before you qualify for vacation time.
You gotta work here a little longer before you qualify for vacation time.;Hmph!
Of course, there's the matter of finding it. I've made several trips into the Si Wong Desert and almost died each time.  I'm afraid that desert's impossible to cross.;Professor, would you like to see our sky bison?
Wow, shouldn't be too hard to find a place like this out here.;Does this place even exist?
Some say it doesn't.;Shouldn't you have mentioned that before?
It shouldn't be this hard to spot a giant, ornate building from the air.;Down there, what's that?
Forget it. It's obviously not what we're looking for.  The building in this drawing is enormous.;What kind of animal is that?
I think that was one of the Knowledge Seekers.  Oh, we must be close to the library!;No, this is the library- look!  It's completely buried.
The library is buried?!  My life's ambition is now full of sand.  Well, time to start excavating.;Actually, that won't be necessary. The inside seems to be completely intact.  And it's huge.
Actually, that won't be necessary. The inside seems to be completely intact.  And it's huge.;That fox thingy went in through a window. I say we climb up there and give it a look.
That fox thingy went in through a window. I say we climb up there and give it a look.;I say you guys go ahead without me.
You got something against libraries?;I've held books before. And I gotta tell you, they don't exactly do it for me.
Oh, right. Sorry.;Let me know if they have something you can listen to.
Don't worry, buddy. I'm not making you go underground ever again. You can stay out here with Toph.;What's up?
You should leave the way you came.  Unless you want to become a stuffed head of anthropology.;Are you the spirit who brought this library to the physical world?
Hm! Humans only bother learning things to get the edge on other humans.  Like that firebender who came to this place a few years ago, looking to destroy his enemy.  So ...  who are you trying to destroy?;What? No-no-no-no destroying. We're not into that.
Then why have you come here?;Um ... knowledge for knowledge's sake?
If you're going to lie to an all-knowing spirit being, you should at least put some effort into it.;I'm not lying, I'm here with the Avatar,  and he's the bridge between our worlds. He'll vouch for me.
I suppose that counts.;Oh, great spirit,  check this out.  Ta-da!  It's a special knot. That counts as knowledge!
You're not very bright, are you?  Enjoy the library.;Bright enough to fool you.
Bright enough to fool you.;So ... you like ... flying?  Of course, I'm more comfortable on the ground where I can see. Well, I don't see the way you do. I feel the vibrations in the ground with my feet.  But this sand is so loose and shifty, it makes everything look fuzzy.  Not that there's anything wrong with fuzzy.
Hey, look at these weird lion turtle things.;Eh, I've seen weirder.
I always knew I was special.;The darkest day in Fire Nation history. It's got a date at the top, but it doesn't say anything else.
Sokka, where are you going?;I want to know what happened to the Fire Nation on their darkest day. This could be promising.  The information on the Fire Nation should be right up here.
They destroyed everything having to do with the Fire Nation.;That's so unfair! Just when I think I'm one step ahead of the Fire Nation, it turns out they beat us here a long time ago.  I need to know what happened on the darkest day.  Hello, little weird fox guy.
Seems it's trying to assist you.;Um, sure, I guess I'll follow you.
This room is a true marvel, a mechanical wonder. It's a planetarium that shows the heavens moving.;Uh, this is beautiful, but how is it helpful?
Maybe these dials represent dates and times. Sokka, try entering that date from that parchment you took.;Shh, Katara, not in front of the fox, he's with the owl.
Great, you must have broken it.;It's not broken.  The sun is behind the moon. It's a solar eclipse! It's literally the darkest day in Fire Nation history. Now I get it.  Something awful happened on that day. I don't know what, but I do know why. Firebenders lose their bending during a solar eclipse.  Sorry.
That makes sense. I mean, think what the lunar eclipse at the North Pole did to the waterbenders. This is huge.;Fine, you earned it.  We've gotta get this information to the Earth King at Ba Sing Se. We'll wait for the next eclipse, then we'll invade the Fire Nation when they're totally helpless. The Fire Lord is going down!
Mortals are so predictable, and such terrible liars.  You betrayed my trust. From the beginning, you intended to misuse this knowledge for evil purposes.;You don't understand. If anyone's evil, it's the Fire Nation. You saw what they did to your library. They're destructive and dangerous. We need this information.
I'm afraid I can't allow that. You already know too much.;I already told you, I don't wanna snuggle.  Library sinking.  Library sinking!  Hi-yah!
Sokka, let's go.;But we still don't know when the next eclipse is gonna to happen.
Don't be stupid! We'll find out later!;No, we won't. If we leave this place, we'll never get the information. Aang, come with me to the planetarium,  I need cover. Katara, take Momo and get out of here!
But ...!;Go!
Hurry, Sokka!;What is it now?
Why are we doing this?;Because if this calendar can tell us about eclipses in the past, then maybe it can project when the next one will be.
You can't possibly check every single date.;I don't have to. We just need to check every date before Sozin's Comet arrives. Because after that- well, try not to think about that.
Come on, eclipse.;That's it! The solar eclipse! It's just a few months away.  Got it. Now, let's get to Ba Sing Se.
That's it! The solar eclipse! It's just a few months away.  Got it. Now, let's get to Ba Sing Se.;Don't make me put this down.
Your waterbending won't do you much good here.  I've studied Northern water style, Southern water style, even Foggy Swamp style.;That's called Sokka style.  Learn it.
Just go!;We got it. There's a solar eclipse coming.  The Fire Nation's in trouble now!
How could you let them take Appa?! ‌ Why didn't you stop them‌?!;I couldn't! The library was sinking! You guys were still inside and-
You could've come to get us. I could've saved him!;I can hardly feel any vibrations out here. The sandbenders snuck up on me and there wasn't time for –
Aang, stop it. You know Toph did all she could. She saved our lives.;Who's going to save our lives now? We'll never make it out of here.
We'd better start walking. We're the only people who know about the solar eclipse. We have to get that information to Ba Sing Se.;You think if we dig out the giant owl, he'll give us a ride?
Maybe we should make camp.;No please, don't stop just for me!
You know these guys?;Sure. Colonel Mongke and the Rough Rhinos are legendary. Each one is a different kind of weapon specialist.  They are also a very capable singing group.
We're not here to give a concert. We're here to apprehend fugitives!;Would you like some tea first? I'd love some. How about you, Kahchi? I make you as a jasmine man. Am I right?
Enough stalling! Round 'em up!;It's nice to see old friends.
Too bad you don't have any old friends that don't want to attack you.;Hmmm ... Old friends that don't want to attack me ...
Hmmm ... Old friends that don't want to attack me ...;Can't you watch where you're ...
Can't you watch where you're ...;No.
No.;Right. Sorry.
Come on guys, we've got to stick together.;If I sweat anymore, I don't think sticking together will be a problem.
If I sweat anymore, I don't think sticking together will be a problem.;Katara, can I have some more water?
Okay, but we've got to try to conserve it.;We're drinking your bending water.  You used this on the swamp guy! Urch!
We're drinking your bending water.  You used this on the swamp guy! Urch!;It does taste swampy.
I'm sorry, it's all we have.;Not anymore! Look!
Sokka, wait! You shouldn't be eating strange plants!;There's water trapped inside these!
I don't know ...;Suit yourself. It's very thirst quenching though.
Okay, I think you've had enough.;Who lit Toph on fire?
Who lit Toph on fire?;Can I get some of that cactus?
I don't think that's a good idea. Come on, we need to find Aang.;How did we get out here in the middle of the ocean?
What is that?;What? What is what?
What? What is what?;It's a giant mushroom!  Maybe it's friendly!
Let's just keep moving. I hope Aang's okay ...;Friendly mushroom! Mushy giant friend!
Come on, Aang. We can do this if we work together. Right Toph?;As far as I can feel, we're trapped in a giant bowl of sand pudding. I got nothin'.
Sokka? Any ideas how to find Ba Sing Se?;Why don't we ask the circle birds?
I think we should stop for the night.;Is there any more water?
This is the last of it. Everyone can have a little drink.;Momo, no! You've killed us all!
No, he hasn't.;Oh, right. Bending.
Sokka, let me see the things you got from the library.;What?! I didn't steal anything! Who told you that?  It was you! You ratted me out!
No one here is going to help us. These people just look like filthy wanderers.;So do we.  Ah, this is interesting. I think I found our friend.
You brought us here to gamble on Pai Sho?;I don't think this is a gamble.
This place is full of desperate characters. If they find out we're collecting a bounty, we might have to fight them all just to keep our prize. Patience.;May I have this game?
The guest has the first move.  I see you favor the white lotus gambit. Not many still cling to the ancient ways.;Those who do can always find a friend.
What are you old gasbags talking about?;I always tried to tell you that Pai Sho is more than just a game.
I thought you said he would help!;He is. Just watch.
Come on, get up. We need to go.;Yesterday my mouth tasted like mud. Now it just tastes like sand. I never thought I'd miss the taste of mud so much.
Appa!;Appa‌? But why would Princess Yue need him‌? She's the moon!  She flies by herself!
Trying to keep everyone together. Let's just get moving. We need to head this direction.;Ow! Crud! I am so sick of not feeling where I'm going!  And what idiot buried a boat in the middle of the desert‌?
A boat‌?;Believe me, I kicked it hard enough to feel plenty of vibrations.
Now that you played Pai Sho, are you going to do some flower arranging, or is someone in this club going to offer some real help‌?;You must forgive my nephew. He is not an initiate and has little appreciation for the cryptic arts.
Who knocks at the garden gate‌?;One who has eaten the fruit and tasted its mysteries.
The needle on this compass doesn't seem to be pointing north according to my charts.;Take it easy little lady. I'm sure the sand folks who built this baby know how to get around here.
That's what the compass is pointing to! That giant rock! It must be the magnetic center of the desert.;A rock‌?! Yes! Let's go!
Maybe we can find some sandbenders.;Ahhh ... Finally! Solid ground!
Ahhh ... Finally! Solid ground!;I think my head is starting to clear out the cactus juice. And look!
You've been hallucinating on cactus juice all day and then you just lick something you find stuck to the wall of a cave‌?!;I have a natural curiosity.
I have a natural curiosity.;I don't think this is a normal cave. This was carved by something.
Yeah ... look at the shape.;There's something buzzing in here.  Something that's coming for us!
There's something buzzing in here.  Something that's coming for us!;What are you doing? That rock almost crushed me!
What are you doing? That rock almost crushed me!;Sorry, I can't tell where they are in the air!
Sorry, I can't tell where they are in the air!;I got this one.
Sokka, there's nothing there!;I guess my head's not as clear as I thought.
Toph, shoot a rock right there. Fire!;Yeah! You got it! She got it, right‌?
What's going on? Is the club meeting over‌?;Everything is taken care of. We're heading to Ba Sing Se.
The city is filled with refugees. No one will notice two more.;We can hide in plain sight there. And it's the safest place in the world from the Fire Nation. Even I couldn't break through to the city.
Sorry, father.;I recognize the son's voice. He's the one that stole Appa.
Are you sure?‌;I never forget a voice.
I-It wasn't me!;You said to put a muzzle on him!
I traded him! To some merchants! He's probably in Ba Sing Se by now! They were going to sell him there!  Please! We'll escort you out of the desert! We'll help however we can!;Just get out of here! Run!
Waterbending bomb! Yeah!;Sure, five thousand year-old maps from the spirit library. Just splash some water on 'em.
So, did you figure out what route we're going to take?;Okay, we just got out of the desert, so we must be around here. And we need to go to Ba Sing Se, which is here. It looks like the only passage connecting the south to the north is this sliver of land called the Serpent's Pass.
Okay, we just got out of the desert, so we must be around here. And we need to go to Ba Sing Se, which is here. It looks like the only passage connecting the south to the north is this sliver of land called the Serpent's Pass.;You sure that's the best way to go?
You sure that's the best way to go?;It's the only way. I mean, it's not like we have Appa to fly us there.
Oh ... well, okay. I'm glad you're doing better.;Then to Ba Sing Se we go. No more distractions.
The Serpent's Pass? Only the truly desperate take that deadly route!;Deadly route.  Great pick, Sokka!
Deadly route.  Great pick, Sokka!;Well, we are desperate.
We're all looking for a better life, safe behind the walls of Ba Sing Se.;Who would have thought after all these years, I'd return to the scene of my greatest military disgrace ...  as a tourist!
Here's the deal. I hear the captain's eating like a king while the refugees have to feed off his scraps. Doesn't seem fair, does it?;What sort of king is he eating like?
Uh ... no one told us we had to have passports.;Don't you know who this is? He's the Avatar!
Next!;I'll take care of this. My name is Toph Beifong, and I'll need four tickets.
Ah, the golden seal of the flying boar! It is my pleasure to help anyone of the Beifong family.;It is your pleasure. As you can see, I am blind and these three imbeciles are my valets.
But, the animal-;-is my seeing-eye lemur.
Well, normally it's only one ticket per passport, but this document is so official ... I guess it's worth four tickets.;Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.;All right, we scammed that lady good!
Tickets and passports please.;Is there a problem?
Yeah, I got a problem with you! I've seen your type before. Probably sarcastic, think you're hilarious and let me guess, you're traveling with the Avatar.;Do I know you?
You mean you don't remember? Maybe you'll remember this!;Suki!
That crabby lady makes all the security guards wear them. And look at you, sleeveless guy. Been working out?;Ahhh, I'll grab a tree branch and do a few chin touches every now and then. Nothing major.
Don't worry, you'll get to the city safely. I'll lead you through the Serpent's Pass.;I can't believe we gave up our tickets and now we're going through the Serpent's Pass.
I can't believe we gave up our tickets and now we're going through the Serpent's Pass.;I can't believe you're still complaining about it.
I'm coming too!;Are you sure that's a good idea?
Sokka, I thought you'd want me to come.;I do, it's just–
Just what?;Nothing. I'm glad you're coming.
Look at this writing! How awful!;What does it say?
I'm okay!;They've spotted us! Let's go, let's go!
Suki, are you okay? You have to be more careful! Come on!;Thanks for saving my life, Toph. Hey, no problem, Sokka.
Thanks for saving my life, Toph. Hey, no problem, Sokka.;Suki, you shouldn't sleep there. Who knows how stable this ledge is, it could give away at any moment!
Sokka, I'm fine, stop worrying!;You're right, you're right, you're perfectly capable of taking care of yourself! Wait! Oh, never mind, I thought I saw a spider, but, you're fine.
It's a beautiful moon.;Yeah, it really is.
Look, I know you're just trying to help, but I can take care of myself.;I know you can.
Then why are you acting so overprotective?;It's so hard to lose someone you care about. Something happened at the North Pole and I couldn't protect someone. I don't want anything like that to ever happen again.
I lost someone I care about. He didn't die, he just went away. I only had a few days to get to know him, but he was smart and brave and funny ...;Who is this guy? Is he taller than me?
No, he's about your height.;Is he better-looking?
It is you, stupid!;Oh!
I'm sorry.;No, you shouldn't be.
No, you shouldn't be.;So, Smellerbee. That's an unusual name for a young man.
Maybe it's because I'm not a man ... I'm a girl!;Oh, now I see. It's a beautiful name for a lovely girl!
From what I heard, people eat like this every night in Ba Sing Se. I can't wait to set my eyes on that giant wall.;It is a magnificent sight.
So you've been there before?;Once. When I was a ... different man.
I've done some things in my past that I'm not proud of, but that's why I'm going to Ba Sing Se: for a new beginning. A second chance.;That's very noble of you. I believe people can change their lives if they want to. I believe in second chances.
What is that thing?;I think I just figured out why they call it the Serpent's Pass! Suki, you know about giant sea monsters, make it go away!
Just because I live near the unagi doesn't mean I'm an expert!;Oh great and powerful sea serpent, please accept this humble and tasty offering. Thank you.
I'll distract it. Katara, get everyone across!;Toph, come on, it's just ice!
Toph, come on, it's just ice!;Actually, I'm going to stay on my little island, where I can see!  Okay, I'm coming!
Actually, I'm going to stay on my little island, where I can see!  Okay, I'm coming!;You're doing great! Just follow the sound of my voice!
You're doing great! Just follow the sound of my voice!;It's hard to ignore.
It's hard to ignore.;You're almost there!
You're almost there!;Help! I can't swim!
Help! I can't swim!;I'm coming, Toph!
I'm coming, Toph!;Help!
Actually, it's me.;Oh ... well ...  you can go ahead and let me drown now.
Oh ... well ...  you can go ahead and let me drown now.;There's the wall! Now it's nothing but smooth sailing to Ba Sing Se.
Oh no!;What's wrong?
The baby's coming!;What? Now? Can't you hold it in or something?
Sokka, calm down. I helped Gran-Gran deliver lots of babies back home.;This isn't the same as delivering an arctic seal! This is a real ... human ... thing!
It's a girl!;So, you want to go see the baby, or are you going to faint like an old lady again?
So, you want to go see the baby, or are you going to faint like an old lady again?;No, no, I'm good this time.
Aang, you have to come see this.;She sounds healthy.
She's beautiful.;It's so ... squishy looking.
I promise, I'll find Appa as fast as I can. I just really need to do this.;See you in the big city.
See you in the big city.;Say hi to that big fuzzball for me.
Sokka, it's been really great to see you again.;Whoa, hold on. Why does it sound like you're saying goodbye?
I came along because I wanted to make sure you got through the Serpent's Pass safely. But now I need to get back to the other Kyoshi Warriors.;So you came along to protect me?
Listen, I'm really sorry about last night. We were talking ... and saying things ... and I just got carried away and before I knew it -;You talk too much.
I was, but something stopped me. Something big.;Now what's so big that Appa has to wait?
Not needed. I have the situation under control. I assure you the Fire Nation cannot penetrate this wall. Many have tried to break through it, but none have succeeded.;What about the Dragon of the West? He got in.
Well ... uh, technically yes, but he was quickly expunged.  Nevertheless, that is why the city is named Ba Sing Se. It's the impenetrable city. They don't call it Na Sing Se.  That means penetrable city.;Yeah, thanks for the tour, but we still got the drill problem.
Not for long. To stop it, I've sent an elite platoon of earthbenders called the Terra Team.;That's a good group name. Very catchy.
We're doomed!;Get a hold of yourself, man!
You're right. I'm sorry.;Maybe you'd like the Avatar's help now?
The question is, how are we going to stop that thing?;Why are you all looking at me?
You're the idea guy.;So I'm the only one who can ever come up with a plan? That's a lot of pressure.
And also the complaining guy.;That part I don't mind.
So, Mr. Lee and Mr. ummm ... Mushy, is it?;It's pronounced Mushi.
You telling me how to do my job?;Uh, no, no. But may I just say you're like a flower in bloom. Your beauty is intoxicating.
Ty Lee. She doesn't look dangerous, but she knows the human body and its weak points. It's like she takes you down from the inside.;Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh! Ooh!
Yes?;What you just said! That's how we're going to take down the drill! The same way Ty Lee took down all those big earthbenders!
What you just said! That's how we're going to take down the drill! The same way Ty Lee took down all those big earthbenders!;By hitting its pressure points!
We'll take it down from the inside.;Once I whip up some cover, you're not going to be able to see. So, stay close to me.
Don't worry, Princess. I'm sure it's nothing.;Everyone into the hole!
Everyone into the hole!;It's so dark down here, I can't see a thing!
It's so dark down here, I can't see a thing!;Oh no, what a nightmare!
Oh no, what a nightmare!;Sorry.
Toph, come on!;No way am I going in that metal monster. I can't bend in there. I'll try to slow it down out here.
No way am I going in that metal monster. I can't bend in there. I'll try to slow it down out here.;Okay, good luck!
Where are we going to get something like that?  What are you doing? Someone's going to hear us!;That's the point. I figure a machine this big needs engineers to run it. And when something breaks ...
Hi.;This'll work. Thanks!
Get your hot tea here! Finest tea in Ba Sing Se!;Ooh! Jasmine please.
Have it your way.;Hey!
What are you doing firebending your tea? For a wise, old man, that was a pretty stupid move!;I know you're not supposed to cry over spilled tea, but ...  it's just so sad!
I know you're not supposed to cry over spilled tea, but ...  it's just so sad!;Wow, it looks a lot thicker in person than it does in the plans. We're going to have to work pretty hard to cut through that.
What's this we stuff? Aang and I are going to have to do all the work.;Look, I'm the plan guy. You two  are the cut stuff up with waterbending guys.  Together, we're Team Avatar!
Grrr!;I mean,  you're almost there.
I don't know how many more of those I have in me.;Do you hear that? We took it down! We better get out of here fast!
Congratulations, crew. The drill has made contact with the wall of Ba Sing Se.  Start the countdown to victory!;C'mon brace ... budge!
This is bad, really bad.;We're putting everything we've got into busting these braces, but it's taking too long!
Then I'll go to the top of this thing and deliver the final blow.;And boom! It all comes crashing down!
Everyone inside that wall. The whole world is counting on us.;The whole world minus the Fire Nation that is.
The whole world minus the Fire Nation that is.;C'mon, Twinkle Toes, hurry up!
Let's go, ladies!;Good work, Team Avatar! Now Aang just needs to ...  duck!
Wow, Azula, you were right! It is the Avatar!  ... and friends.;Hey.
Slurry pipeline? What does that mean?;It's rock and water mixed together. It means our way out!
Why don't you try blocking my chi now, circus freak?;Katara, keep that up. The pressure will build up in the drill. Then when Aang delivers the final blow, it'll be ready to pop!
Soldiers, whatever you do, don't stop shooting rocks down there!;Good technique, little sister! Keep it up! Don't forget to breathe!
You know, I'm just about sick and tired of you telling me what to do all day! You're like a chattering hog-monkey!;Just bend the slurry, woman!
Just bend the slurry, woman!;You guys need some help?
Thanks, Momo. I owe you one.  Now all I need ...  Actually, that is what I need for once.;Woohoo!
Woohoo!;Here it comes!
He heated it himself!  Those guys are firebenders!;What a handsome baby.
Thank you.;I just want to say, good effort out there today, Team Avatar!
Enough with the Team Avatar stuff. No matter how many times you say it, it's not going to catch on.;How about ...  the Boomeraang Squad! See it's good because it's got Aang in it. Boomeraang.
Let's talk about this on our way into the city.;The Aang Gang?
Sokka ...;The Fearsome Foursome?
The Fearsome Foursome?;You're crazy.
You're crazy.;Why? We're fearsome!
Look, the Inner Wall!  I can't believe we finally made it to Ba Sing Se in one piece.;Hey, don't jinx it! We can still be attacked by some giant exploding Fire Nation spoon. Or find out the city's been submerged in an ocean full of killer shrimp!
Hey, don't jinx it! We can still be attacked by some giant exploding Fire Nation spoon. Or find out the city's been submerged in an ocean full of killer shrimp!;You been hitting the cactus juice again?
You been hitting the cactus juice again?;I'm just sayin', weird stuff happens to us.
It's such a big city.;He's a giant bison! Where could someone possibly hide him?
Oh.;Back in the city. Great.
Back in the city. Great.;What's the problem? It's amazing!
What's the problem? It's amazing!;It's just a bunch of walls and rules. You wait, you'll get sick of it in a couple of days.
Hello, my name is Joo Dee! I have been given the great honor of showing the Avatar around Ba Sing Se. And you must be Sokka, Katara, and Toph! Welcome to our wonderful city. Shall we get started?;Yes. We have information about the Fire Nation army that we need to deliver to the Earth King, immediately.
Great! Let's begin our tour. And then I'll show you to your new home here. I think you'll like it!;Ugh!  Maybe you missed what I said. We need to talk to the king about the War, it's important.
This is why I never came here before. I always heard it was so different from the way the monks taught us to live.;I just want our place to look nice, in case someone brings home a lady friend!
This city is a prison. I don't want to make a life here.;Life happens wherever you are, whether you make it or not. Now come on, I found us some new jobs, and we start this afternoon!
This is the Middle Ring of Ba Sing Se, home to the financial district, shops and restaurants, and the university.;Yeah, we met a professor from the Ba Sing Se University. He took us to an ancient underground library where we discovered information about the war that is  absolutely crucial for the Earth King to hear!
Isn't history fascinating? Look, here's one of the oldest buildings in the Middle Ring, Town Hall!;Is that woman deaf? She only seems to hear every other word I say.
Is that woman deaf? She only seems to hear every other word I say.;It's called being handled. Get used to it.
Ridiculous.;Uh, does this possibly come in a larger size?
I have extra string in the back. Have some tea while you wait!;Blech!  This tea is nothing more than hot leaf juice!
Uncle, that's what all tea is.;How could a member of my own family say something so horrible?! We'll have to make some major changes around here.
What's inside that wall?;And who're the mean-looking guys in robes?
More good news! Your request for an audience with the Earth King is being processed, and should be put through in about month.  Much more quickly than usual!;A month?
Isn't it nice? I think you'll really enjoy it here.;I think we would enjoy it more if we weren't staying for so long. Can't we see the Earth King any sooner?
I'd like to escort you anywhere you'd like to go.;We don't need a babysitter.
If someone wanted to sell a stolen animal without anyone knowing, where would they go‌?;Where's the black market? Who runs it?  Come on, you know!
Hmm ... I've never seen any sandbenders or nomads around here.  You should ask Professor Zei, he teaches the class on desert cultures.;Right. And which of your professors could we ask about the war with the Fire Nation?
Well, I'm sorry no one has seen your bison. Why don't you go get some rest‌?  Someone will be over with dinner, later.;Hey, come with me.
Nice to meet you, Pong.;So, Pong, what's goin' on with this city? Why is everyone here so scared here to talk about the war?
War? Scared? What do you mean?;I can feel you shaking.
Shh, listen, you can't mention the War here.  And whatever you do, stay away from the Dai Li.;Would you like a pot of tea?
We've been working in a tea shop all day!  I'm sick of tea!;Sick of tea? That's like being sick of breathing!  Have you seen the spark rocks to heat up the water?
They're not there.  You'll have to firebend, old man.  Where're you going?;I borrowed our neighbors'. Such kind people.
I got it! I know how we're going to see the Earth King!;How are we supposed to do that?  One doesn't just pop in on the Earth King!
No, it just says 'bear'.;Certainly you mean his pet skunk bear.
Certainly you mean his pet skunk bear.;Or his armadillo bear.
Just ... bear.;This place ... is weird.
The palace will be packed. We can sneak in with the crowd!;Won't work.
Why not?;Well, no offense to you simple country folk, but a real society crowd will spot you a mile away. You've got no manners!
Excuse me? I've got no manners?! You're not exactly lady fancy fingers!;I learned proper society behavior and chose to leave it.  You never learned anything. And frankly, it's a little too late.
I learned proper society behavior and chose to leave it.  You never learned anything. And frankly, it's a little too late.;Aha, but you learned it! You could teach us!
Good evening, Mr. Sokka Water Tribe, Ms. Katara Water Tribe, Lord Momo of the Momo Dynasty. Your Momo-ness.;Avatar Aang, how do you do? Go on.
Avatar Aang, how do you do? Go on.;Katara might be able to pull it off, but you two would be lucky to pass as busboys!
Katara might be able to pull it off, but you two would be lucky to pass as busboys!;But I feel so fancy!
Earth!;Fire!
Wow, you look beautiful.;Don't talk to the commoners, Katara. First rule of society.
This is the best tea in the city!;The secret ingredient is love.
Invitation please.;I think this will do.
No entry without an invitation. Step out of line, please.;Look, the Pangs and the Yum Soon Hans are waiting in there for us! I'm going to have to tell them who didn't let me in.
Where are they?;Look, I came up with a back-up plan.  We dress Momo like a ghost, okay?  He flies by the guards, creating a distraction. Then, we blast a hole in the wall-
Or we could go in as these guys. Toph said we might pass as busboys!;Okay ...  But remember that Momo ghost plan. I think it's a winner.
You must be getting tired of using those swords.  Why don't you go ahead and firebend at me?;Please, son, you're confused! You don't know what you're doing!
Where are Toph and Katara?;Forget about them! Just keep an eye out for the king.
I don't know what he looks like.;You know, royal, flowing robe, fancy jewelry.
That could be anyone!;Another crab puff, please.
You found us!;I'd know your little footsteps anywhere, Twinkle Toes.
I'd know your little footsteps anywhere, Twinkle Toes.;Thanks for letting us in!
Sorry, but the guy who escorted us in won't let us out of his sight!;What guy?
What are you doing here? You have to leave immediately, or we will be in terrible trouble!;Not until we see the king.
The Avatar! I didn't know the Avatar would be here.;You keep their attention while I look for the king.
Arrest them!  They're firebenders!;This poor boy is confused. We're just simple refugees.
It's true, sir. We saw the whole thing. This crazy kid attacked the finest tea maker in the city.;Oh, ho, ho. That's very sweet.
You don't understand! They're Fire Nation! You have to believe me!;Aang! The Earth King!
Greetings, Your Majesty.;Hey, let me go!
Avatar, it is a great honor to meet you.  I am Long Feng, Grand Secretariat of Ba Sing Se and head of the Dai Li. I'd like to talk to you. Your friends will be waiting for us in the library.;Why won't you let us talk to the king? We have information that could defeat the Fire Nation!
So the king is just a figurehead.;He's your puppet!
Oh, no, no. His Majesty is an icon, a god to his people. He can't sully his hands with the hourly change of an endless war.;But we found out about a solar eclipse that will leave the Fire Nation defenseless. You could lead an invasion ...
Toph! Aren't you gonna get ready for the day?;I'm ready.
You're not gonna wash up? You've got a little dirt on your ... everywhere, actually.;You call it dirt, I call it a healthy coating of earth!
Hmm ...  You know what we need? A girl's day out!;Do I have to?!
It'll be fun!;The Fancy Lady Day Spa?  Sounds like my kinda place.
Are you ready for some serious pampering?;Sure, Katara, whatever you say. As long as they don't touch my feet.
Wow, great make-up.;Thanks.
Let's go, Toph.;No, no, that was a good one. Like your poodle monkey.  You know what else is a good one?
Those girls don't know what they're talking about.;It's okay. One of the good things about being blind, is I don't have to waste my time worrying about appearance.  I don't care what I look like. I'm not looking for anyone's approval. I know who I am.
That's what I really admire about you, Toph. You're so strong, and confident, and self-assured.  And I know it doesn't matter, but ...  You're really pretty.;I am?
Yeah, you are.;I'd return the compliment, but I've no idea how you look like.  Thank you, Katara.
If this is for a romantic picnic, may I suggest this lavender one?;No, it's not a romantic picnic, but it is a special occasion.  The moon flower likes partial shade.
Shhh. It's okay. Shhh.;Leaves from the vine, falling so slow. Like fragile, tiny shells, drifting in the foam. Little soldier boy, come marching home. Brave soldier boy, comes marching home.
Hey!;It is usually best to admit mistakes when they occur, and seek to restore honor.
When I'm through with you kids, the window won't be the only thing that's broken.;But not this time. Run!
You, give me all your money!;What are you doing?
I'm mugging you!;With that stance?
Huh? What're you talking about? Just give me your money, old man!;With a poor stance, you are unbalanced, and you can be easily knocked over.
So you really think I could be a good masseur?;Of course!
This is so great. No one has ever believed in me.;While it is always best to believe in oneself, a little help from others can be a great blessing.
On second thought, you should probably stick to saving people.;What's this?
Through all the long night, winter moon glows with bright love, sleet her silver tears.;Ahh, poetry.
Five, seven, then five, syllables mark a haiku.  Remarkable oaf.;They call me Sokka, that is in the Water Tribe.  I am not an oaf.
Oooooh!;You think you're so smart, with your fancy little words, this is not so hard.
Oooooh!;I calls it easy. Like I paddle my canoe, I'll paddle yours too!
There's nuts and there's fruits.  In fall the clinging plum drops, always to be squashed.;Squish, squash, sling that slang. I'm always right back at ya, like my ...  boomerang!
Uh, that's one too many syllables there, bub.;Poetry ...
Uncle, we have a problem.  One of the customers is on to us. Don't look now but there is a girl over there at the corner table.  She knows we're Fire Nation.  Didn't I say don't look?!;You're right, Zuko. I've seen that girl in here quite a lot. Seems to me she has quite a little crush on you.
Hi Lee, my name's Jin. Thank you and ... well, I was wondering if you would like to go out sometime.;He'd love to!
It's complicated. I have to go.;How was your night, Prince Zuko?
Put a muzzle on him!;I'm sorry, Appa.
Uncle? What are you looking at? Is there something out there?;Uh, it's nothing. Go back to sleep.
We found a printer to make our posters!;Hey, I thought designing the lost Appa poster was my job. I've been working all day on my Appa!
Sokka, the arrow is on Appa's head.;This is his head.
Why are feet coming out of it?;Those are his horns.  I haven't seen him in a while, okay?
Those are his horns.  I haven't seen him in a while, okay?;It looks just like him to me!
It looks just like him to me!;Thank you, I worked really-  Why do you feel the need to do that?
So, you're the genius behind this incredible brew. The whole city is buzzing about you! I hope Pao pays you well.;Good tea is its own reward.
But it doesn't have to be the only reward. How would you like to have your own tea shop?;My own tea shop? This is a dream come true!
I'll provide you with a new apartment in the Upper Ring.  The tea shop is yours to do whatever you want,  complete creative freedom.;I even get to name the shop?
Uh, senior executive assistant manager?;Did you hear, nephew? This man wants to give us our own tea shop in the Upper Ring of the city!
Hello, Aang, and Katara, and Sokka, and Toph.;What happened to you? Did the Dai Li throw you in jail?
What? Jail? Of course not. The Dai Li are the protectors of our cultural heritage.;But you disappeared at the Earth King's party.
Dropping fliers and putting up posters isn't permitted within the city. Not without proper clearance.;We can't wait around to get permission for everything.
We don't care about the rules and we're not asking permission!  We're finding Appa on our own and you should just stay out of our way!;That might come back to bite us in the blubber.
I don't care! From now on, we do whatever it takes to find Appa!;Yeah, let's break some rules!
No. It's much too dangerous for us to confront him directly. Let's see if we can still handle this quietly.;So, I was thinking about names for my new tea shop. How about the Jasmine Dragon? It's dramatic, poetic, has a nice ring to it.
The Avatar is here in Ba Sing Se and he's lost his bison.;We have a chance for a new life here.  If you start stirring up trouble, we could lose all the good things that are happening for us.
Good things that are happening for you! Have you ever thought that I want more from life than a nice apartment and a job serving tea?;There is nothing wrong with a life of peace and prosperity. I suggest you think about what it is that you want from your life and why.
I want my destiny.;What that means is up to you.  The Tea Weevil! No, that's stupid.
What that means is up to you.  The Tea Weevil! No, that's stupid.;We'll split up to cover more area. Toph, I guess you should just come with me.
We'll split up to cover more area. Toph, I guess you should just come with me.;Why? Because you think I can't put up posters on my own?!  It's upside-down, isn't it? I'll just go with Sokka.
I don't want to fight you, I'm here to help!;Katara, what is it?
Jet's back.  We can't trust anything Jet says.;But we don't even know why he's here!
You're lying!;He's not lying.
He's not lying.;How can you tell?
How can you tell?;I can feel his breathing and heartbeat. When people lie, there's a physical reaction. He's telling the truth.
I told you, I work nearby! Two guys were talking about some giant furry creature they had, I figured it must be Appa!;He was here!
We've got to get to Whaletail Island!  Where's Whaletail Island?;Far, very far.  Here it is. It's near the South Pole, almost all the way back home.
You're right Aang, right now our first concern has to be finding Appa. We can come back when we have him.;All right, let's get moving.
Gee, I wonder.;Was this guy your boyfriend or something?
What ... no!;I can tell you're lying ...
I can tell you're lying ...;We can take the train out to the wall but then we'll have to walk.
Don't worry, on the way back we'll be flying!;We're finally leaving Ba Sing Se.  Worst ... city ... ever!
Why would I be arrested? I've been living peacefully in the city!;This doesn't make any sense. They're both telling the truth.
That's impossible.;No it's not! Toph can't tell who's lying because they both think they're telling the truth. Jet's been brainwashed!
We need to find a way to jog his real memories.;Maybe Katara should kiss him. That should bring something back!
Maybe you should kiss him, Sokka!;Hey, just an idea!
A bad one.;Ooh, wait! I've got it!
I don't think it's working.;Try to think of something from your past that triggers your emotions.
They took me to a headquarters under the water. Like a lake!;Wait! Remember what Joo Dee said? She said she went on vacation to Lake Laogai!
That's it! Lake Laogai.;So where's this secret headquarters?
Under the water, I think.;There's a tunnel right there by the shore.
Expecting someone else?;Now that's something different.
Uncle?;So, the Blue Spirit. I wonder who could be behind that mask ...
What are you doing here?;I was just about to ask you the same thing. What do you plan to do now that you've found the Avatar's bison? Keep him locked in our new apartment? Should I go put on a pot of tea for him?
First I have to get it out of here.;And then what!? You never think these things through!  This is exactly what happened when you captured the Avatar at the North Pole! You had him, and then you had nowhere to go!
I would have figured something out!;No! If his friends hadn't found you, you would have frozen to death!
I know my own destiny, Uncle!;Is it your own destiny, or is it a destiny someone else has tried to force on you?
Stop it, Uncle! I have to do this!;I'm begging you, Prince Zuko! It's time for you to look inward and begin asking yourself the big questions. Who are you, and what do you want?
Don't worry, Katara. I'll be fine.;He's lying ...
Appa's gone! Long Feng beat us here.;If we keep moving, maybe we can catch up with them!
I can handle you by myself.;Yeah! Appa!
I missed you, buddy.;You did the right thing, nephew.  Leave it behind.
Your Majesty. There are three female warriors to see you. They're from the island of Kyoshi.;That's Suki!
You know these warriors?;Oh yeah. The Kyoshi Warriors are a skilled group of fighters. Trustworthy too. They're good friends of ours.
Wait. Aang.;I'm really gonna miss you guys.
Yeah.;Aahh! Great. That's enough.  Okay, we love each other.  Seriously.
Yeah. Girls are waiting for us. Thanks, positive attitude.;Everything is gonna work out perfectly. From now on and forever.
Dinner.  The Council of Five and the military are loyal to the Earth King,  but the Dai Li remains loyal to you, Long Feng, sir.;Hello? Mom? Anyone home?  Hey! Who do you think you're dealing with!?
I missed you more than you'll ever know, buddy.;Look, we escaped from the Dai Li. We got Appa back. I'm telling you, we should go to the Earth King now and tell him our plan. We're on a roll.
One good hour after weeks of trouble isn't much of a roll.;We can build on it. If we want to invade the Fire Nation when the eclipse happens, we'll need the Earth King's support.
We can build on it. If we want to invade the Fire Nation when the eclipse happens, we'll need the Earth King's support.;What makes you think we'll get it? I don't know if you've noticed, but things don't usually go that smoothly for our little gang.
What makes you think we'll get it? I don't know if you've noticed, but things don't usually go that smoothly for our little gang.;I know, but I've got a good feeling about this. This time will be different.
Sokka, Long Feng is in control of the city. His conspiracy with the Dai Li is too powerful. I think we should just keep flying and leave this horrible place behind us.;I'm with Sweetness. I've seen enough of Ba Sing Se.  And I can't even see!
But now that we have Appa back, there's nothing stopping us from telling the Earth King the truth. About the conspiracy and the War.;See? Aang's with me.  It's the whole reason we came here in the first place. We have to try.
Well, I guess if the Earth King knew the truth, things could change.;I don't trust the new positive Sokka.  Long Feng brainwashed you, didn't he!?
I don't trust the new positive Sokka.  Long Feng brainwashed you, didn't he!?;That's probably the Dai Li searching for us.  So?
Let's fly!;Can we please buy a new saddle? Riding bareback is terrifying!
Can we please buy a new saddle? Riding bareback is terrifying!;There it is! That whole thing is the palace! The Earth King's chamber should be in the center!
We have to be careful. Long Feng's probably warned the king that we're coming.;Why would you assume that? If you ask me, I think we're just gonna sail right in and-  Aahh!
Why would you assume that? If you ask me, I think we're just gonna sail right in and-  Aahh!;What was that?
What was that?;Surface-to-air rocks!  More incoming!
Sorry! We just need to get through to see the Earth King!;Seriously, we're actually on your guys' side!  Sorry.
Toph, which way to the Earth King?;How should I know? I'm still voting we leave Ba Sing Se.
Burglar!;Sorry. Wrong door.
Sorry. Wrong door.;You did the right thing. Letting the Avatar's bison go free.
I don't feel right.;Zuko!
Zuko!;Now that's an impressive door. It's gotta go somewhere.  Yaaah!  A little warning next time?
They're here to overthrow you.;No, we're on your side. We're here to help.
You invade my palace, lay waste to all my guards, break down my fancy door, and you expect me to trust you?;He has a good point.
Detain the assailants!;But we dropped our weapons. We're your allies.
The Avatar?  You're the Avatar?;Uh, no. Him.
I have to trust my advisor.;Wait!  I can prove he's lying. Long Feng said he's never seen a sky bison. Ask him to lift his robe.
Right there! Appa bit him!;Never met a sky bison, huh?
Well I suppose there's no way to prove where those marks came from.;Of course there is!
Yup. That pretty much proves it.  But it doesn't prove this crazy conspiracy theory.  Though, I suppose this matter's worth looking into.;You're burning up.  You have an intense fever.  This will help cool you down.
So thirsty.;Here's some clean water to drink.  Stay under the blankets and sweat this out.
I've never been outside the palace.  Now that's the way to travel.  So, may I ask where we're going?;Underneath Lake Laogai, Your Kingliness. To the Dai Li's secret headquarters. You're about to see where all the brainwashing and conspiring took place.
Underneath Lake Laogai, Your Kingliness. To the Dai Li's secret headquarters. You're about to see where all the brainwashing and conspiring took place.;It's gone!
It's gone!;Oh don't tell me- !  That's okay. Still got my positive attitude.
Hm ...  That seems awfully convenient.;Hey, if anything, this proves the conspiracy exists even more.
No Earth King has ever been to the Outer Wall.  I don't have any more time for this nonsense.;If you come with us, this time you can ride on Appa.
If you come with us, this time you can ride on Appa.;First time flying?
It's both thrilling and terrifying!;Yeah.  I hate it, too.
What is that?;It's a drill. A giant drill  made by the Fire Nation to break through your walls.
You can't arrest me! You all need me more than you know!;Looks like Long Feng is long gone! Ha! Ah, yeah, I've been waiting to use that one.
I want to thank you, young heroes, for opening my eyes. All this time, what I thought was a great metropolis was merely a city of fools. And that makes me the king fool.  We're at war. With the Fire Nation.;That's why we came to Ba Sing Se, Your Highness: because we think you can help us end the war.
We don't have much time. There's a comet coming this summer. Its energy will give the firebenders unbelievable strength. They'll be unstoppable.;But there is hope. Before the comet comes, we have a window of opportunity: A solar eclipse is coming. The sun will be completely blocked out by the moon, and the firebenders will be helpless.
What are you suggesting, Sokka?;That's the day we need to invade the Fire Nation.  The Day of Black Sun.
I don't know. That would require moving troops out of Ba Sing Se. We'd be completely vulnerable.;You're already vulnerable. The Fire Nation won't stop until Ba Sing Se falls. You can either sit back and wait for that to happen, or take the offensive and give yourself a fighting chance.
It's a letter from your mom. Your mom's here in the city. And she wants to see you.;Long Feng intercepted our letters from home?  That's just sad.
I'm afraid not.;Oh.
A small fleet of Water Tribe ships.;What? That could be Dad!
Protecting the mouth of Chameleon Bay.  Led by Hakoda.  It is Dad!;You should know that this is not a natural sickness, but that shouldn't stop you from enjoying tea.
What's happening?;Your critical decision. What you did beneath that lake. It was in such conflict with your image of yourself that you are now at war within your own mind and body.
What's that mean?;You are going through a metamorphosis, my nephew. It will not be a pleasant experience, but when you come out of it,  you will be the beautiful prince you were always meant to be.
I can't believe it. There's a man living at the Eastern Air Temple. He says he's a guru.;What's a guru? Some kind of poisonous blow fish?
And I can't believe we know where our dad is now.;I know what you mean. My mom's in the city. And from her letter it sounds like she finally understands me.
I know what you mean. My mom's in the city. And from her letter it sounds like she finally understands me.;This is all such big news! Where do we even start?
Well, if I'm going to the Eastern Air Temple, Appa and I can drop you off at Chameleon Bay to see your dad.;Someone has to stay here with the Earth King and help him plan for the invasion.  I guess that's me.
No, Sokka. I know how badly you wanna help Dad. You go to Chameleon Bay. I'll stay here with the king.;You are the nicest ... sister ... ever!
Katara, I-;All right. Who's ready to get going on our little men-only man trip?
What's that smell?;It's jook. I'm sure you wouldn't like it.
Actually, it smells delicious. I'd love a bowl, Uncle.;Now that your fever is gone, you seem different somehow.
You haven't seen your dad in over two years. You must be so excited!;I know I should be, but, I just feel sick to my stomach.
Don't be nervous. He's going to be so happy to see you!;So what about you? Are you nervous to meet this guru?
Sokka.;Hi, Dad.
I'm quite certain you're mistaken.;Hey! Can you two old ladies quit your bickering for a second?  I got to go to the bathroom!
Ooh, very sneaky Toph! Nice try, but you can't trick me!;Let me out of here so I can kick both your butts!
Your father invented tangle mines himself.;Destructive? Buoyant? And ...  Aggh, ehhh! Terrible smelling!
Very perceptive. The mines are filled with skunk fish and seaweed. When a ship detonates the mine, the seaweed tangles up the propeller and the foul smell forces people to abandon the ship. I call it the stink and sink.;Good one, Dad!
Bato, get these mines loaded up! The rest of you men, prepare for battle!;Uhhh ... what should I do, Dad?
Aren't you listening? I said, The rest of you men, get ready for battle.;Who thought when we came to this city as refugees, that I'd end up owning my own tea shop? Follow your passion, Zuko, and life will reward you.
Congratulations, Uncle.;I am very thankful.
You deserve it. The Jasmine Dragon will be the best tea shop in the city.;No. I'm thankful because you decided to share this special day with me. It means more than you know.
Now let's make these people some tea!;Yes, let's make some tea!
That's right! Even the separation of the four elements is an illusion. If you open your mind, you will see that all the elements are one. Four parts of the same whole. Even metal is just a part of earth that has been purified and refined.;Come on, metal. Budge!  Wooo! Toph, you rule.
Uncle! I need two jasmine, one green, and one lychee!;I'm brewing as fast as I can!
There's a giant hole in the box! How is that a trick!?;It's not! It's the real deal!
Ready to go knock some Fire Nation heads?;You don't know how much this means to me, Dad. I'll make you proud and I'll finally prove to you what a great warrior I am.
Sokka, you don't have to prove anything to me. I'm already proud of you and I've always known you're a great warrior.;Really?
Why do you think I trusted you to look after our tribe when I left?;This can't be good news.
A message from the Royal Palace.;I ... I can't believe it!
What is it, Uncle?;Great news! We've been invited to serve tea to the Earth King!
I don't know. In my vision, I just knew she needed help.;It would be nice if your Avatar powers could be just a little more specific from time to time.  What is that?
There are still a few loose ends. The Avatar, and my brother and uncle.;Many times I imagined myself here, at the threshold of the palace.  But I always thought I would be here as a conqueror. Instead, we are the Earth King's personal guests, here to serve him tea. Destiny is a funny thing.
It sure is, Uncle.;So how did it go with the guru? Did you master the Avatar State?
If you leave now, you won't be able to go into the Avatar State at all!;Aang, are you okay?
What's taking so long?;Maybe the Earth King overslept.
Have you met the Dai Li? They're earthbenders, but they have a killer instinct that's so firebender. I just love it.;Did I ever tell you how I got the nickname The Dragon of the West?
I'm not interested in a lengthy anecdote, Uncle.;It's more of a demonstration, really.
Well, she met with the Council of Generals to plan the invasion, and since then, she been off with your friends, the Kyoshi Warriors.;See, Aang? She's with Suki. They're probably back at our apartment right now talking about make-up or something.
Momo!;There's no one else here.
Katara is in trouble! I knew it!;Oh, no!
Oh, no!;Wait! Someone's at the door.  Actually, I know who it is. It's an old friend of mine.  Glad to see you're okay.
Wait! Someone's at the door.  Actually, I know who it is. It's an old friend of mine.  Glad to see you're okay.;I need your help.
You guys know each other?;I met him in the woods once and knocked him down.  Then he gave me some tea and some very good advice.
I met him in the woods once and knocked him down.  Then he gave me some tea and some very good advice.;May I come in?  Princess Azula is here in Ba Sing Se.
She must have Katara.;She has captured my nephew as well.
Then we'll work together to fight Azula, and save Katara and Zuko.;Whoa there! You lost me at Zuko.
Whoa there! You lost me at Zuko.;I know how you must feel about my nephew.  But believe me when I tell you that there is good inside him.
I know how you must feel about my nephew.  But believe me when I tell you that there is good inside him.;Good inside him isn't enough! Why don't you come back when it's outside him too, okay?
Katara's in trouble. All of Ba Sing Se is in trouble. Working together is our best chance.;I brought someone along who might help us.
Azula and Long Feng are plotting a coup! They're going to overthrow the Earth King!;My sister! Where are they keeping Katara?
I'm sorry.  That's something we have in common.;Well, what'd you know? There is an ancient city down there. But it's deep.
Well, what'd you know? There is an ancient city down there. But it's deep.;We should split up. Aang, you go with Iroh to look for Katara and the angry jerk,  no offense.
We should split up. Aang, you go with Iroh to look for Katara and the angry jerk,  no offense.;None taken.
None taken.;And I'll go with Toph to warn the Earth King of Azula's coup.
So, Toph thinks you give pretty good advice, and great tea!;The key to both is proper aging. What's on your mind?
Well, I met with this guru who was supposed to help me master the Avatar State and control this great power, but to do it, I had to let go of someone I love.  And I just couldn't.;Perfection and power are overrated. I think you were very wise to choose happiness and love.
What happens if we can't save anyone and beat Azula? Without the Avatar State, what if I'm not powerful enough?;I don't know the answer. Sometimes, life is like this dark tunnel. You can't always see the light at the end of the tunnel, but if you just keep moving,  you will come to a better place.
I don't know the answer. Sometimes, life is like this dark tunnel. You can't always see the light at the end of the tunnel, but if you just keep moving,  you will come to a better place.;There's General How!
You're under house arrest.;The coup is happening right now! We've gotta warn the Earth King!
Yeah. What are you in time for,  cutie?;Uh, I'm kinda involved with Suki.
Who?;They're not the real Kyoshi Warriors!
Saving you, that's what.;Zuko, it's time we talked.  Go help you other friends. We'll catch up with you.
Why, Uncle?;You're not the man you used to be, Zuko.  You are stronger and wiser and freer than you have ever been. And now you have come to the crossroads of your destiny.  It's time for you to choose. It's time for you to choose good.
It's not too late for you, Zuko. You can still redeem yourself.;The kind of redemption she offers is not for you.
Why don't you let him decide, Uncle?  I need you, Zuko. I've plotted every move of this day,  this glorious day in Fire Nation history, and the only way we win is together. At the end of this day, you will have your honor back. You will have Father's love. You will have everything you want.;Zuko, I am begging you.  Look into your heart and see what it is that you truly want.
We've got to find Sokka and Toph.;See any Dai Li agents nearby?
See any Dai Li agents nearby?;Nope, all clear.
Come on, it's easy. You just walk on your front paws instead of your rear ones.  Like this.;That is a nice trick.
I'm sorry, Katara.;You've got to get out of here! I'll hold them off as long as I can!
Momo?;Twinkle Toes! That's got to be you!
You're not dreaming. You're finally awake.;Aang, good to see you back with the living, buddy!
Sokka?;Uh-oh, somebody catch him, he's going to-
Zuko!;After what happened at Ba Sing Se, we had to get you to safety. We flew back to Chameleon Bay where we found my father and the other Water Tribe men.  The Earth King decided he wanted to travel the world in disguise, so he set off alone.  Well, not completely alone.  Soon, the bay was overrun by Fire Nation ships. Rather than fight them all, we captured a single ship and made it our disguise. Since then we've been traveling west. We crossed through the Serpent's Pass a few days ago. We've seen a few Fire Nation ships, but none have bothered us.
Yes, Sokka's plan. We won't be able to mount a massive invasion without the Earth King's armies, but the solar eclipse will still leave the Fire Nation vulnerable.;So we're planning a smaller invasion. Just a ragtag team of our friends and allies from around the Earth Kingdom. We already ran into Pipsqueak and The Duke.
Good to see you again, Aang!;And the best part is, the eclipse isn't even our biggest advantage!  We have a secret...  You!
Me?;Yep, the whole world thinks you're dead! Isn't that great?
The world thinks I'm dead? How is that good news? That's terrible!;No, it's great! It means the Fire Nation won't be hunting us anymore! And even better, they won't be expecting you on the Day of Black Sun!
I hate not being able to do anything.;Hopefully, you won't need to.
What? Why doesn't anyone ever tell me anything? Something's not right; they should have known that. I think this is a captured ship.  Just stay quiet until we're safely across the ramp. Then we'll sink this ship.;They know!
Well, then I'm sure you have nothing to worry about.;Load the Toph!
I just can't stand by and do nothing!;Aang, no!  You're still hurt, and you have to stay secret! Just let us handle this.
Fine.;How are we doing?
How are we doing?;Things couldn't get much worse.  The universe just loves proving me wrong, doesn't it?
Things couldn't get much worse.  The universe just loves proving me wrong, doesn't it?;You make it too easy!
You make it too easy!;Thank you, the universe!
Thank you, the universe!;Hey, Aang! We're going into town to find some dinner.
Well, I am pretty hungry. Maybe dinner's a good idea.;Here,  tie this around your head. It will cover your arrow.
I'm not going out if I can't wear my arrow proudly!;Aang, come on. Be practical.
I know, but you'll have our help.;You didn't think you could get out of training just by coming to the Fire Nation, did you?
What about the invasion?;We'll join up with my dad and the invasion force the day of the eclipse.
We'll join up with my dad and the invasion force the day of the eclipse.;Hey! What's ... oh, it's your glider.
I think I see a cave below.;Sh! Keep quiet!
Great job with the cloud camo, but next time, let's disguise ourselves as the kind of cloud that knows how to keep its mouth shut.;Yeah, we wouldn't want a bird to hear us chatting up there and turn us in.
Yeah, we wouldn't want a bird to hear us chatting up there and turn us in.;Hey, we're in enemy territory.  Those are enemy birds.
Yeah, blending in is better than hiding out.  If we get Fire Nation disguises,  we would be just as safe as we would be hiding in a cave.;Plus, they have real food out there. Does anyone want to sit in the dirt and eat cave hoppers?
Plus, they have real food out there. Does anyone want to sit in the dirt and eat cave hoppers?;Looks like we got outvoted, sport. Let's get some new clothes.
Ta-dah! Normal kid.;Hm ... I should probably wear shoes. But then I won't be able to see as well.  Sorry, shoes!  Finally, a stylish shoe for the blind earthbender.
Oh, we're going to a meat place?;Come on, Aang, everyone here eats meat. Even the meat!
I got invited to play with some kids after school.;After what?!
I enrolled in a Fire Nation school, and I'm going back tomorrow.;Enrolled in what?!
I'm going in for a visit. You're going to stand guard here, and no one is going to know about this.  Uncle, it's me.;Aang, I'm trying to be mature and not immediately shoot down your idea, but it sounds ... really terrible.
Aang, I'm trying to be mature and not immediately shoot down your idea, but it sounds ... really terrible.;Yeah, we got our outfits. What do you need to go to school for?
Every minute I'm in that classroom, I'm learning new things about the Fire Nation. I already have a picture of Fire Lord Ozai.  And here's one that I made out of noodles!;Impressive, I admit, but I still think it's too dangerous.
I guess we'll never find out about the secret river then. It goes right to the Fire Lord's palace. We were supposed to learn about it in class tomorrow.;Hmm, I am a fan of secret rivers ... fine, let's stay a few more days.
Flamey-O, hotman!;Flamey-O?
Thank you for coming, Mr. and Mrs ...;Fire.  Wang Fire.  This is my wife, Sapphire.
That's what any mother would say, Ma'am. Nonetheless, you're forewarned; if he acts up one more time, I'll have him sent to reform school-  by which I mean the coal mines. Are we clear?;Don't you worry, Mr. Headmaster. I'll straighten this boy out somethin' fierce!  Young man, as soon as we get home you're gonna get the punishment of a lifetime!
Actually, nothing. Believe it or not, I'm looking out for you. If people find out you've been to see Uncle, they'll think you're plotting with him. Just be careful, Dum-Dum.;That settles it! No more school for you, young man!
I'm not ready to leave yet. I'm having fun for once, just being a normal kid. You don't know what it's like, Sokka. You get to be normal all the time.;Ha ha!
Listen guys, those kids at school are the future of the Fire Nation. If we want to change this place for the better, we need to show them a little taste of freedom.;What could you possibly do for a country of depraved little fire monsters?
I'm gonna throw them,  a secret dance party!;Go to your room!
Don't think of it as a dance party, but as a cultural event celebrating the art of fancy footwork!;They're coming! Everyone stop bending.
Sure you do, you have for generations! It just so happens that I know several classic Fire Nation dances. A hundred years ago, this was known as the 'Phoenix Flight'.  And, this was the 'Camelephant Strut'.;Who knew Twinkle Toes could dance?
And this is how they do it in the ballrooms of Ba Sing Se.;Wow, they look pretty good together.
We're safe Sokka, you can take off the mustache now.;Oh, no I can't. It's permanently glued to my skin.
Oh, no I can't. It's permanently glued to my skin.;Way to go, dancy pants. I think you really did help those kids, you taught them to be free.
Well, that was some dance party Aang.;Flamey-O sir, flamey-O.
Momo!  Oh Momo!  Hahahahaha! You found me, buddy!  Hey guys, I think this river's polluted.;Pah! Plegh!
Pah! Plegh!;Well that explains why I can't catch a fish around here, because normally my fishing skills are off the hook!  Get it? Like a fishing hook?
Well that explains why I can't catch a fish around here, because normally my fishing skills are off the hook!  Get it? Like a fishing hook?;Too bad your skills aren't on the hook.
It looks like we'll need to go somewhere else to get food,  assuming that'll fit into Sokka's master schedule.;Hmmm ... It's doable. But that means only two potty breaks today.
Now you look just like a little hill with horns! Bye, buddy!;I don't feel anything. Where is the village?
I don't feel anything. Where is the village?;It's in the middle of the river!
Look at this place.  It's so sad.  We have to do something to help.;No, we can't waste our time here. We have a bigger mission that we need to stay focused on. These people are on their own.
These people are starving! But you'd turn your back on them?  How can you be so cold and heartless?;I'm not turning my back, I'm just being realistic. We can't go around helping every rinky-dink town we wander into. We'll be helping them all by taking out the Fire Lord.
I'm not turning my back, I'm just being realistic. We can't go around helping every rinky-dink town we wander into. We'll be helping them all by taking out the Fire Lord.;Hey, loud mouths! Maybe we should be a little quieter when we talk about   taking out the Fire Lord.
Hey, loud mouths! Maybe we should be a little quieter when we talk about   taking out the Fire Lord.;Come on, Katara, be reasonable about this. You know our mission has to come first.
Let's just get what we need and go.;Hey, Dock. You work here too?
Me neither.  What I can getcha?  Hey, I'll give you a special deal. If you buy three fish, I'll give you a clam for free.;We'll just take the fish.  Mind telling your brother we need a ride back to shore?
I wish I could help more.;Our detour into town today has completely thrown off our schedule. It's gonna take some serious finagling to get us back on track.
Our detour into town today has completely thrown off our schedule. It's gonna take some serious finagling to get us back on track.;Finagle away, oh schedule master.
Finagle away, oh schedule master.;Well, for starters, it looks like we'll need to wake up forty-three minutes earlier every day.
Forty-three minutes?;Look, we only have a few weeks to get to the Fire Lord in time for the invasion and the eclipse, which, by the way, only lasts for eight minutes. And we just lost a whole day. So if we want to make up the time and stay on schedule, we have to wake up early!
Look, we only have a few weeks to get to the Fire Lord in time for the invasion and the eclipse, which, by the way, only lasts for eight minutes. And we just lost a whole day. So if we want to make up the time and stay on schedule, we have to wake up early!;Well I'm not waking up early.
Well I'm not waking up early.;Or we could just cut out all of our eating breaks.
No way!;Forget it!
Forget it!;I got it, how's this from now on, we'll take food breaks and potty breaks at the same time.
I think Appa's sick.;What? Appa's sick? That's awful!
What? Appa's sick? That's awful!;Wow, Sokka, I didn't realize you cared so much.
Wow, Sokka, I didn't realize you cared so much.;Of course I care. I might as well just throw our schedule away now.  And I'm concerned because my big, furry friend doesn't feel well.
Of course I care. I might as well just throw our schedule away now.  And I'm concerned because my big, furry friend doesn't feel well.;He must have gotten sick from being in the polluted water.
It looks like he needs some medicine. Maybe we can find the right herbs in town.;Is it just me, or does this place seem different?
Yeah, are the people ... happier?;Hey, Xu, what's going on with everyone today?
The Painted Lady.  She's part of our town's lore. They say she's a river spirit who watches over our town in times of need. I always thought she was just a legend. Until now.;See, we don't need to help these people, they already have someone to help them. All we need is medicine for our sick friend.
Looks like we need to stay another night so Appa can rest.;I guess you're right. You got any more food to sell?
Would you like the one-headed fish, or the two-headed fish?;Two-headed!  What? You get more for your money that way!
Thank you, Painted Lady.;Hi, Dock. Is Xu around?
Let me check ...  Hey there! Back again, are ya?;We need more food.  Our friend is still sick and we can't leave until he's better.
Oh, well, that's too bad. Maybe if you guys are lucky, the Painted Lady will visit you in the night, and heal your friend.;And maybe she'll cook us a midnight snack, and we'll all have a sing-along.
Can you believe how much an entire village can be affected by one lady I mean ... spirit?;Well, I hope she returns every night. Otherwise this place would go right back to the way it was.
Why would you say that? Look how much better off these people are.;Yeah, now, but without her they wouldn't be able to fend for themselves. If she really wanted to help, she would use her spirit magic to blow up that factory.
Shhh!  We don't wanna wake Sokka.  Hi, Sokka, we were just out on a morning walk!;Oh, really? A morning walk?  I know you're the Painted Lady, I know you've been sneaking out at night, and I know you've been lying about Appa and been feeding him  purpleising tongue berries!  Katara, what you did put our whole mission in jeopardy. We're leaving right now!
Hey, I just found out this morning!;What's going on?
Fire Nation soldiers are heading toward the village!;What did you do?
I kind of destroyed their factory.;You what?
It was your idea!;I was joking! I also said to use spirit magic and made funny noises!  Did you even think this through? The army is gonna blame the villagers! They're headed there right now to get revenge!
Well, what was I supposed to do?;Leave! Do nothing!
No, I will never, ever turn my back on people who need me!  I'm going down to that village, and I am gonna do whatever I can.;Wait! I'm coming, too.
I thought you didn't want to help.;You need me, and I will never turn my back on you.
How dare you act like our Painted Lady!;Maybe she is a waterbender, but she was just trying to help you. Because of her, that factory won't be polluting your river, and the army is gone. You should be down on your knees thanking her!
She's right, but what should we do?;Maybe we can clean the river!
Yeah, we can clean the river!  Thank you. You know, you're not so bad for a waterbender.;You wouldn't mind keeping that a secret, by the way, would you?
Wow, this is amazing to watch.;Kind of makes you realize how insignificant we are.
Kind of makes you realize how insignificant we are.;Eh, you've seen nothing once, you've seen it a thousand times.
Eh, you've seen nothing once, you've seen it a thousand times.;Oh man,  you've never not seen anything like this.
Toph, let's make a trench to stop the fire from coming any closer.;What should I do?
Keep an eye on Momo.;So what, I'm just a lemur sitter?  There, there, feel better?
Sokka, stand clear!;Right.  Staying clear, got it.
These people have no idea  how close they were to getting toasted last night.;Yeah, the worst thing about being in disguise is that we don't get the hero worship anymore. I miss the love.
Yeah, the worst thing about being in disguise is that we don't get the hero worship anymore. I miss the love.;Boo-hoo,  poor heroes.
What's your problem? You haven't even touched your smoked sea slug.;It's just, all you guys can do this awesome bending stuff like putting out forest fires, and flying around and  making other stuff fly around. I can't fly around, okay?  I can't do anything.
That's not true. No one can read a map like you.;I can't read at all!
Nothing. I was just trying to ...;Look, I appreciate the effort,  but the fact is each of you is so amazing and so special and I'm ... not.  I'm just the guy in the group who's regular.
I'm sorry you're feeling so down, but I hope you know, none of us see you that way.  I know something that's going to make you feel better.;You do?
I'll just stick to what I got.;Ooh!  That's what Sokka's talking about.
That's it! That's what you needed all along, Sokka.;A sword?
That's a great idea. I could've never gotten to where I am without Master Pakku. Everyone needs a teacher.;I learned from badgermoles. They don't talk, but they're still good teachers.
I learned from badgermoles. They don't talk, but they're still good teachers.;It would be nice to be a master sword fighter. All right, I'll talk to him.
Can I help you?;I've come to train with the master.
You should know The Master turns almost everyone away.  What did you bring him to prove your worth?;Well, uhh ...
Right ...  Let's get this over with.;Master, my name is Sokka, and I wish to be instructed in the way of the sword.
Sokka. That's an unusual name.;Oh, uh, really, uh where I come from, the Fire Nation colonies, it's a pretty normal name... for Fire Nation colonials.
Let me guess. You've come hundreds of miles from your little village where you're the best swordsman in town. And you think you deserve to learn from the master.;Well, actually, I've been all over the world.
Yep, here we go.;And I know one thing for sure:  I have a lot to learn.
You're not doing a very good job of selling yourself.;I know. Your butler told me that when I met you, I would have to prove my worth.  But the truth is... I don't know if I am worthy.
The first thing you must learn is that your weapon is an extension of yourself.  You must think of it as another part of your own body.;Like a second head.
What should we do today‌?;I'm tapped out. I already picked my toes, twice.
Twice?;The first time was for cleaning, but the second time's just for the  sweet picking sensation!
Sokka's been in charge of the schedule. I'm not sure what we should be doing.;Plus, it's so hot today.
How hot is it?;I dunno. Real hot‌?
The warrior practices a variety of arts to keep his mind sharp and fluid.  The first you will learn is calligraphy.  Write your name.;Writing my name will make me a better swordsman‌?
You are getting ink on your face.;I am?  I am! So this is about putting my identity on the page, right?
And no peeking.;I'm finished!
You added a rainbow.;Is that ok‌ay?
Rock gardening teaches the warrior to manipulate his surroundings and use them to his advantage.;Hm, manipulate them to my advantage ... oh!
No, we're over on this island.;You noodle-brains don't know what you're doing. I miss Sokka.
You've had a good first day of training.;I have‌? But I thought I messed up every single thing we worked on!
You messed things up in a very special way. You are ready for a real sword.;Are you giving me one of yours‌?
Choosing the correct material is the most important step in crafting a sword.  You must trust your steel with your life. Choose carefully.;Master,  would it be possible for me to leave and bring back a special material for my sword‌?
I wouldn't have it any other way.;Sokka's coming!
Sokka's coming!;Hey, guys. What are you doing‌?
Sokka!;You're back!
Say something funny!;Funny how‌?
What's their deal‌?;I don't know. They missed you or something. I didn't care.
I don't know. They missed you or something. I didn't care.;Thanks. That warms my heart. Anyway, I need some help.
Who's this‌?;Oh, these are my friends. Just other good Fire Nation folks.  Do you think we can make a sword out of a meteorite‌?
Sokka, when you first arrived, you were so unsure. You even seemed down on yourself.  But I saw something in you right away.  I saw a heart as strong as a lion turtle, and twice as big.  And as we trained, it wasn't your skills that impressed me.  No, it certainly wasn't your skills.  You showed something beyond that.  Creativity, versatility,  intelligence ...  these are the traits that define a great swordsman.  And these are the traits that define you.  You told me you didn't know if you were worthy,  but I believe that you are more worthy than any man I have ever trained.;I'm sorry, Master. You're wrong.  I am not worthy.  I'm not who you think I am. I'm not from the Fire Nation. I'm from the Southern Water Tribe.  I lied so that I could learn swordsmanship from you. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry, too.;No, this is my fight, alone.
Wait!  The Master wanted you to have this, as something to remember him by.;It's a Pai Sho tile.
What does it mean‌?;I have no idea.  Ooh, that reminds me! Toph, I thought you might like this  since you've probably never had a chance to bend space earth before.
I have no idea.  Ooh, that reminds me! Toph, I thought you might like this  since you've probably never had a chance to bend space earth before.;Sweet!  Check this out.
You know, I don't think there's such a thing as space earth. If it's from space, then it's not really earth.;Must you ruin everything‌?
Time to hit the beach!;Aang, I know swimming is fun and all,  but do you really think you should be exposing yourself like that?  Cover up.
What? I'm wearing trunks.;I know.  It's your tattoos I'm worried about. What if someone sees you?
Nice.;Guys, you're all gonna think I'm crazy, but it feels like a metal man is coming.
I'll make a fire.  There's plenty of stuff to burn in there.;This is crazy! How can we beat a guy who blows things up with his mind?
I'm okay.;Well, that was random.
But, there's nothing here.;Yes, there is. An entire village, hundreds of houses ...  all completely buried in ash.
Do they have bathrooms in the Spirit World?;As a matter of fact, they do not.
You sent this, didn't you? I found the secret history, which by the way should be renamed history most people already know! The note said that I needed to know about my great-grandfather's death, but he was still alive in the end.;No. He wasn't.
What are you talking about?;You have more than one great-grandfather, Prince Zuko. Sozin was your father's grandfather.  Your mother's grandfather was Avatar Roku.
Why are you telling me this?;Because understanding the struggle between your two great-grandfathers can help you better understand the battle within yourself.  Evil and good are always at war inside you, Zuko. It is your nature, your legacy. But, there is a bright side.  What happened generations ago can be resolved now, by you. Because of your legacy, you alone can cleanse the sins of our family and the Fire Nation. Born in you, along with all the strife, is the power to restore balance to the world.
You mean, after all Roku and Sozin went through together, even after Roku showed him mercy, Sozin betrayed him like that‌?;It's like these people are born bad.
No, that's wrong. I don't think that was the point of what Roku showed me at all.;Then what was the point?
Roku was just as much Fire Nation as Sozin was, right? If anything, their story proves anyone's capable of great good and great evil.  Everyone, even the Fire Lord and the Fire Nation have to be treated like they're worth giving a chance.  And I also think it was about friendships.;Do you really think friendships can last more than one lifetime?
I don't see why not.;Well, scientifically speaking, there's no way to prove that ...
Okay. I'm ready for some training.;Good job, Twinkle Toes. Visualize, then attack.
Maybe you should take your own advice, Toph!;What's the matter? Can't handle a little dirt, Madame Fussy-Britches?
Are we taking a break?;Sneak Attack!
Sokka, sneak attacks don't work if you yell it out loud.;Hungry for a mud pie?
Very well, pupil. I believe we've had enough training for today.;While Katara cleans up,  let's go have some fun!
Yeah!;Yes!
Look at all those messenger hawks! You know, I've been thinking about getting one for myself. That way, I wouldn't have to talk to anyone. I could just send them messages.;I gotta say, I like the idea of not talking to you.
So, guys. What are we gonna get with our last silver piece?;We can get more money.  Right there.
You there. Wanna play a friendly game?;How can I possibly play?  I'm blind.
Wow. Fancy guessing. You are amazing at this.  Would you like to make the game a little more interesting?;More interesting? How?
Well, let's say you toss in your friend's fine sword there,  then I'll put up twenty silver pieces against it, and that's more interesting.;I'll do it for forty silver pieces.
Sorry, little lady, but-  Huh?;I won!
Toph got us money.  She scammed one of those guys in town who moves the shells around all sneaky-like.;She used earthbending to win the game! Classic!
Ah, so she cheated.;Hey! I only cheated because he was cheating!  I cheated a cheater.  What's wrong with that?
I'm just saying this isn't something we should make a habit of doing.;Why? Because it's fun? And you hate fun?
Guys, I think these scams have gone far enough. If you keep doing them, something bad is gonna happen.;Could you for once stop being such a sourpuss and just lighten up?
Oh, I'm sorry! You think I should be more like you? Like some wild child?;Yeah! Maybe! Maybe then you'd see  how great we have it! I mean, look at us!  We're traveling around the world! Making easy money! Having fun! With no parents to tell us what to do!
Ah. I see. You're acting like this because of your parents.;Whatever.
They were controlling over you, so you ran away, and now you act like your parents don't exist. You act like you hate them, but you don't. You just feel guilty.;I do hate them.
I don't think so. I think you miss them, but you just don't wanna deal with that, so instead you act like this crazy person.;Look, I ran away to help Aang!
You know what? It doesn't matter. These scams put us all at risk, and we don't need that.  We've already got some third-eyed freak after us.;Speaking of that third-eyed freak, I think I've come up with a name for him. What do you think of Sparky-Sparky-Boom Man?  Just think about it.
We have enough money! You need to stop this!;I'll stop when I wanna stop and not when you tell me!
I'll stop when I wanna stop and not when you tell me!;Speaking of money, I'm off to spend some. See you guys later.
Toph, while I was in town, I found something that you're not gonna like.;Well it sounds like a sheet of paper, but I guess you're referring to what's on the sheet of paper.
Well it sounds like a sheet of paper, but I guess you're referring to what's on the sheet of paper.;It's a wanted poster. Of you. They've nicknamed you the Runaway.
It's a wanted poster. Of you. They've nicknamed you the Runaway.;A wanted poster! That's so great! The Runaway. I love my new nickname. Is there a picture of me? Does it look good?
A wanted poster! That's so great! The Runaway. I love my new nickname. Is there a picture of me? Does it look good?;Well yeah, actually, it does look pretty good.  But, Toph, you're missing the point. Maybe Katara was right. These scams are drawing too much attention to us.
Well yeah, actually, it does look pretty good.  But, Toph, you're missing the point. Maybe Katara was right. These scams are drawing too much attention to us.;Don't be such a worrywart like your sister.  Think of it this way: Now you've got plenty of money to help with the invasion plan.
Don't be such a worrywart like your sister.  Think of it this way: Now you've got plenty of money to help with the invasion plan.;Well, that is true. I had this idea of making armor for Appa.
Well, that is true. I had this idea of making armor for Appa.;Here's a little extra, so you can get yourself a nice map of the Fire Nation. You know what?  Make it an atlas.
Here's a little extra, so you can get yourself a nice map of the Fire Nation. You know what?  Make it an atlas.;I do like expensive atlases.
I do like expensive atlases.;Of course you do.  And that's why this wanted poster is going to stay our little secret.
Sokka,  tell me you didn't buy a bird.;Not just a bird, a messenger bird. Now we can send messages all over the world. Even to Gran Gran.
Wow, how does it work?;Hm. Uh, I never actually thought about that. Hawky,  Gran Gran, South Pole.  I think he gets it.
Well. Look who decided to join us.  Where have you two been? Off scamming again?;Yes, we were.
And I suppose you don't think what you're doing is dangerous at all?;No, I don't.
Really?;Yes. Really.
Well then. What's this?;I don't know! I mean, seriously! What is with you people? I'm blind!
It's a wanted poster of you! The Runaway! Is that what you're called now? Are you proud of this?;Where did you get that!?
It doesn't matter where I got it. The fact is-;You went through my stuff! You had no right!
Your stuff was messy and I was just straightening up, and I happened to stumble across it!;That's a lie!  You're lying, Katara!
Fine! It's a lie! But you've been so out of control lately, I knew something was up! I knew you were hiding something and you were!  Don't you walk away from me while I'm talking to you!;Oh really, Mom? Or what are you gonna do? Send me to my room?
I wish I could!;Well you can't! Because you're not my mom, and you're not their mom!
I never said I was!;No, but you certainly act like it! You think it's your job to boss everyone around, but it's not! You're just a regular kid like the rest of us! So stop acting like you can tell me what to do! I can do whatever I want!
I don't act that way!  Sokka, do I act motherly?;Hey. I'm staying out of this one.
Yes, ma'am.;I can't be around you right now!
Well, I can't be around you!;I know, Hawky. Why can't they just get along?
Sure.;I'm going to send a note to Katara and say it's from Toph, who wants to apologize. Then everyone will be friends again.
I gotta say, Sokka, you continue to impress me with your ideas.;It's a gift.  Dear Katara, sorry for everything. Your friend, Toph.
I can't believe we forgot Toph can't write.;Yup. We're idiots.
I guess Plan B is we send a note to Toph pretending it's from Katara.;I think we're gonna run into a similar problem.  Sorry, Hawky. Looks like I'm gonna have to do this without your help.  Come on. We need to talk.
I think we're gonna run into a similar problem.  Sorry, Hawky. Looks like I'm gonna have to do this without your help.  Come on. We need to talk.;So lemme guess: You brought me out here to tell me that your sister's not as annoying as I make her out to be.
So lemme guess: You brought me out here to tell me that your sister's not as annoying as I make her out to be.;Nah, she's pretty much a pain.  She's always got to be right about everything and she gets all bossy and involved and in your business ...
Nah, she's pretty much a pain.  She's always got to be right about everything and she gets all bossy and involved and in your business ...;Yeah. I don't know how you could deal with it.
Yeah. I don't know how you could deal with it.;Actually, in a way, I rely on it.
Actually, in a way, I rely on it.;I don't understand.
I don't understand.;When our mom died, that was the hardest time in my life. Our family was a mess, but Katara? She had so much strength. She stepped up and took on so much responsibility. She helped fill the void that was left by our mom.
When our mom died, that was the hardest time in my life. Our family was a mess, but Katara? She had so much strength. She stepped up and took on so much responsibility. She helped fill the void that was left by our mom.;I guess I never thought about that.
I guess I never thought about that.;I'm gonna tell you something crazy. I never told anyone this before, but honestly? I'm not sure I can remember what my mother looked like. It really seems like my whole life, Katara's been the one looking out for me. She's always been the one that's there. And now, when I try to remember my mom, Katara's is the only face I can picture.
I'm gonna tell you something crazy. I never told anyone this before, but honestly? I'm not sure I can remember what my mother looked like. It really seems like my whole life, Katara's been the one looking out for me. She's always been the one that's there. And now, when I try to remember my mom, Katara's is the only face I can picture.;The truth is sometimes Katara does act motherly, but that's not always a bad thing. She's compassionate and kind, and she actually cares about me.  You know, the real me. That's more than my own mom.  Don't ever tell her I said any of this!
The truth is sometimes Katara does act motherly, but that's not always a bad thing. She's compassionate and kind, and she actually cares about me.  You know, the real me. That's more than my own mom.  Don't ever tell her I said any of this!;Hey, my lips are sealed.
Hi, Toph. Um, I wanna-;Katara, stop. You don't need to apologize. I was the one being stupid. These scams are out of control, and I'm done with them.
Actually I wasn't going to apologize. I was gonna say ... I wanna pull a scam with you.;What? You wanna pull a scam?
Not just any scam. The ultimate scam.  Whaddaya say, Toph? Just me and you. One last go. You in?;You know I'm in! Now what's this idea of yours?
The plan is simple: This wanted poster says you're worth a lot of money; Ten times more than you've made in all of your scams. So I'm gonna turn you in and collect the reward. Then you metalbend yourself out of jail, and we're on our way.;How could you do this to me? You betrayed me!
Of course. Right this way.;Hey! What kind of cell is this?
Do you think this scam of theirs should be taking this long?;I was just wondering the same thing. We'd better check it out.  You two behave.  Appa's in charge.
I was just wondering the same thing. We'd better check it out.  You two behave.  Appa's in charge.;Wait! It's a trap!
Really? No kidding! Is that why we're sitting in a wooden cage right now? Gee, how'd you figure out it was a trap?;Not for us, Katara! We're the bait! He wants Aang!
I can't believe I'm so stupid! See? This is exactly why I'm against these scams! I knew this would happen!;But, this was your idea.
I know. I wanted to show that I'm not so motherly. I wanted to show you that I can have fun too.;Katara, you are fun. If nothing else, you're at least fun to argue with.
I know your relationship with your parents is complicated. And I shouldn't have said what I said.;It's okay. I was really mad when you said that because ... well because, maybe it's true.  I try not to think about it, but when I left, I probably really hurt them.
It's okay. I was really mad when you said that because ... well because, maybe it's true.  I try not to think about it, but when I left, I probably really hurt them.;Where do you think they might be?
Where do you think anyone is?  Sokka, watch out!  It's Sparky-Sparky-Boom Man!;You know, I'm starting to think that name doesn't quite fit.
What are we gonna do?;I don't know. I wish we had some earth or water. We need bendables.
What about your meteor bracelet? You can make a saw.;I left it back at camp.  I was worried they would take it.
Just fine.;Well, what are you doing?
I'm making my own water.;Katara! You're a genius! A sweaty, stinky genius!
Katara! You're a genius! A sweaty, stinky genius!;This guy is too good! He shoots fire from his brain!
Aang, get up!;Let's get out of here!
Let's get out of here!;Hey, I got it! The perfect name for that guy: Combustion Man!
Hey, I got it! The perfect name for that guy: Combustion Man!;Good job, Sokka. Now let's get outta here before Combustion Man catches us.
Good job, Sokka. Now let's get outta here before Combustion Man catches us.;See? It fits so well!
Well, I'm exhausted. Hawky, how about you, buddy?  Yeah. You're such a lazy little bird.;Katara? I need your help.
What is it, Toph?;I need you to write some things down for me. I wanna send a letter to my parents.
I'll be happy to help.;Hey, where'd Hawky go?
I think I like the man with a sword for a hand better.;Water Tribe slumber parties must stink.
No, wait! I've got one! And this is a true Southern Water Tribe story.;Is this one of those a friend of my cousin knew some guy that this happened to stories?
One winter when Mom was a girl, a snowstorm buried the whole village for weeks. A month later, Mom noticed she hadn't seen her friend Nini since the storm. So Mom and some others went to check on Nini's family. When they got there, no one was home.  Just a fire flickering in the fireplace. While the men went out to search, Mom stayed in the house. When she was alone, she heard a voice.  It's so cold and I can't get warm!  Mom turned and saw Nini standing by the fire. She was blue like she was frozen. Mom ran outside for help, but when everyone came back, Nini was gone.;Where'd she go?
No one knows. Nini's house stands empty to this day, but sometimes, people see smoke coming up from the chimney, like little Nini is still trying to get warm.;Wait! Guys, did you hear that?  I hear people under the mountain. And they're screaming.
Wait! Guys, did you hear that?  I hear people under the mountain. And they're screaming.;Pfft! Nice try.
Pfft! Nice try.;No, I'm serious. I hear something.
You're probably just jumpy from the ghost stories ...;It just ... stopped.
Sorry to frighten you. My name is Hama.  You children shouldn't be out in the forest by yourselves at night.  I have an inn nearby. Why don't you come back there for some spiced tea and warm beds?;Yes, please.
Aren't you sweet?  You know you should be careful. People have been disappearing in those woods you were camping in.;What do you mean disappearing?
Don't worry, you'll all be completely safe here.  Why don't I show you to your rooms and you can get a good night's rest?;I know, Momo.  This place is creepy!  I don't know if I'm gonna be able to fall asleep!
Exactly. I can't lose another delivery boy in the woods.;People disappearing in the woods, weird stuff happening during full moons? This just reeks of Spirit World shenanigans.
I bet if we take a little walk around town, we'll find out what these people did to the environment to make the spirits mad.;And then you can sew up this little mystery lickety-split, Avatar style!
Why don't you take all those things back to the inn? I just have to run a couple more errands. I'll be back in a little while.;This is a mysterious little town you have here.
Mysterious town for mysterious children.;That Hama seems a little strange. Like she knows something, or she's hiding something.
That's ridiculous. She's a nice woman who took us in and gave us a place to stay.  She kinda reminds me of Gran-Gran.;But what did she mean by that comment, mysterious children?
Gee, I don't know. Maybe because she found four strange kids camping in the woods at night? Isn't that a little mysterious?;I'm gonna take a look around.
Sokka! Sokka, what are you doing?  You can't just snoop around someone's house.;It'll be fine.
Sokka, you're gonna get us all in trouble and this is just plain rude!;I'm not finished yet.  Come on ...
So she's got a hobby. There's nothing weird about that.  Sokka, you've looked enough.  Hama will be back soon.;Just an ordinary puppet-loving innkeeper, huh? Well then why does she have a locked door up here?
Probably to keep people like you from snooping through her stuff!;We'll see.  It's empty, except for a little chest.
We'll see.  It's empty, except for a little chest.;Maybe it's treasure!
Sokka, what are you doing? You're breaking into a private room!;I have to see what's in there.
We shouldn't be doing this.;Maybe there's a key here somewhere ...
Maybe there's a key here somewhere ...;Ooh! Hand it over!
Ooh! Hand it over!;Come on, come on!
Come on, come on!;This isn't as easy as it looks!
This is crazy! I'm leaving!;Suit yourself! Do it, Toph!
I'll tell you what's in the box.;An old comb?
I heard you talking around your campfire.;But why didn't you tell us?
I knew I felt a bond with you right away.;And I knew you were keeping a secret, so I guess we're both right.  But I'm sorry we were sneaking around.
I'd steer clear of the sea prunes.;I thought they were ocean kumquats.
That's because the Fire Nation wiped them all out. I was the last one ...;So how did you end up out here?
They put us in terrible prisons here in the Fire Nation. I was the only one who managed to escape.;How did you get away? And why did you stay in the Fire Nation?
This has got to be the nicest natural setting in the Fire Nation. I don't see anything that would make a spirit mad around here.;Maybe the Moon Spirit just turned mean.
Maybe the Moon Spirit just turned mean.;The Moon Spirit is a gentle, loving lady. She rules the sky with compassion and ... lunar goodness!
Only one man ever saw it and lived and that's Old Man Ding.;Where does Old Man Ding live?
Not ready to get snapped up by some moon monster yet at least.;We wanted to ask you about that.
Didn't see no spirit, just felt something come over me, like I was possessed. Forced me to start walking toward the mountain.  I tried to fight it, but I couldn't control my own limbs. It just about had me into a cave up there.  And I looked up at the moon for what I thought would be my last glimpse of light.  But then the sun started to rise and I got control of myself again! I just high-tailed it away from that mountain as quick as I could!;Why would a spirit want to take people to a mountain?
Why would a spirit want to take people to a mountain?;Oh no!  I did hear people screaming under the mountain. The missing villagers must still be there!
I've never felt more alive.;This is the place.
This is the place.;I can't see anything down there.
I can't see anything down there.;That's why you have me. Let's go!
It was a witch!;A witch? What do you mean?
She seems like a normal old woman, but she controls people like some dark puppetmaster!;Hama!
Yes, the innkeeper!;I knew there was something creepy about her!
We have to stop Hama!;I'll get these people out of here. You go!
Aahhh!;We know what you've been doing, Hama!
No!  You've outnumbered yourselves.;Katara, look out!  It's like my brain has a mind of its own! Stop it arm, stop it!
This is it! The official rendezvous point for the invasion force.;How did you pick this place?
How did you pick this place?;Before we split up, my dad and I found this island on the map. It's uninhabited, and the harbors surrounded by the cliffs seemed like the perfect secluded place.
Wait! Four days? The invasion's in four days?;Whatever. That's like four days from now. Let's just calm down and-
You don't get it, do you? My form is bad, I'm sloppy, and I still don't know any firebending. Not even the basics.;That's okay, Aang. The eclipse will block off firebending anyway. You don't need to know it.  Plus, it's a stupid element.
Good night, Katara. Good night, Sokka. Good night, Toph. Good night, Appa. Good night, Momo. Good night, Appa and Mo-;Go to sleep already!
Sokka, get up! I needa know what day it is!;What? Who's talking?
What? Who's talking?;Relax! It's still two days before the invasion!
Sokka, you've gotta get up drill your rock-climbing exercises.;What?
In one of my dreams, you were running from Fire Nation soldiers, trying to climb this cliff,  but you were too slow and they got you!;But that was just a dream. I'm a great climber!
Then climb that cliff! Climb it fast!;Stupid Avatar! Stupid cliff! Stupid dream! I can climb fast!
Don't drink that!;Why? Is it poisoned?
It's like every time I think about how stressed I am, I just end up more stressed. I'm like a big growing snowball of nerves.;Of course you are. That's 'cause you gotta fight the Fire Lord, the baddest man on the planet. And you better win or we're all done for.
Sokka! You're not helping!;What? It's true. That's the deal. He knows it.
Maybe your stress is the kind you need to talk out.;Why don't you get right down to business and tell me what's been bothering you.
You know what's bothering me. I have to fight the Fire Lord in a few days.;Tell me more about this Fire Lord. Why are you so afraid of him?
You said it yourself! He's the baddest man on the planet! I'm supposed to defeat him and save the world!;Life does feel that way sometimes, doesn't it? Like we're all trying to save the world from evil.
Okay! But what can I do to feel better?;Want to try screaming into this pillow?
Forget it! I'm not going!;All right! What you need is a good old-fashioned back pounding to relieve your stress.
Ow! Toph ... I ... think ... this ... is ... bruising ... me!;Sorry. I forgot you had baby skin.  Well, there's one other thing we can try.  Acupuncture!
Uh, I kinda think I sorta might slightly feel a little better.  Maybe.;Then our work here is done.
It's the nightmares. They just get worse and worse.;Looks like it's time for another ...  therapy session.
Put 'em up, Fire Lord!;Hey! I'm tryin' build Appa some armor here so he doesn't have to go into the invasion naked. He's your bison.
Aang? We're all starting to get a little worried about you.;You've been awake too long.
You've been awake too long.;And you're acting downright weird.
Sokka, what do we do?;About what?
Oh, look. Another hallucination. An imaginary bed made out of clouds.;Hey! It's real! We spent hours working on it.
Hey! It's real! We spent hours working on it.;We made it for you. A good night's sleep will probably take the crazy away. We hope.
I'm not going to hit you.;You want me to do it?
You really think so?;We all do. You can do this. You're ready.
We all do. You can do this. You're ready.;You're the man, Twinkle Toes!
Like a baby moose lion.  I'm ready to face the Fire Lord.;So, what's your strategy for taking him down?  Gonna get your glow on and  hit him with a little Avatar State action?
I can't.  When Azula shot me with lightning,  my seventh chakra was locked, cutting off my connection to all the cosmic energy in the universe.;You know what I just heard?  Blah, blah, spiritual mumbo jumbo blah, blah, something about space.
Oh, no.  Sokka, do you think the fog will delay the invasion?;No.  That is the invasion!
You made it, Dad!;Were you able to locate everyone I told you to find?
You helped us find our courage, Katara.  Now we're here to help you.;No way! Is that-
Hippo happy to see Blind Bandit!;You guys here for a rematch?
Negatory. The Boulder and The Hippo no longer fight for others' entertainment. Now, we fight for our kingdom!;Sweet.
Sweet.;Was that a new invention?
Yes, but unfortunately the incendiary capabilities of peanut sauce prove to be a failure.;You're making peanut sauce bombs?
And delicious.;Where you able to complete work on the plans I send you?
I snuck in some white jade tea. I know you like rare teas.;Thank you, Ming. Ever since I was put in here, you have been very kind to me.
Don't worry, you'll do great.;Good morning everyone. Ahh!  Umm ... so, as you know, today, we're invading the Fire Nation! I mean I know you know that because otherwise why else would you be here?  Uh anyway,  the Fire Lord's palace is here . Uh nope, uh wait, uh wait, uh wait, it's here,  and uh, there's an eclipse today and Aang's gonna fight the Fire Lord and the firebenders won't have any fire to use so that's good for us!  And ... um ... I'm sorry let me start at the beginning . Katara and I discovered Aang frozen in an iceberg, now I didn't like Aang at first but grew to love him over time, then we went to the Southern Air Temple where Aang used to live and then we met Suki,  who's a Kyoshi warrior. She dressed me like a woman and then she kissed me, and then Aang's friend was a crazy old king and ...
Wow, when he says the beginning he means the beginning beginning.;... And then Katara got Haru arrested and then now he's grown a mustache which if you look at him in the front row you can see it ...
We've been looking everywhere for you. The boats are ready to leave.;I messed up, Aang.
What?;The invasion plan was my moment of truth and I completely flubbed it. I just fell apart.
Sokka, that speech wasn't your moment of truth. That was just public speaking, and nobody's really good at that.;My dad is! He explained the plan perfectly and inspired everyone, like a real leader should.
Look, your moment of truth isn't gonna be in front of some map; it's gonna be out there on the battlefield.;You seem so confident about everything, how do you know we're gonna win?
You've really outdone yourself this time, son.;Yeah, congratulations, Sokka. You managed to invent a worse way of travel than flying.
Helmet?;Well, I just came up with the idea. The mechanist did all the work.
Lunchtime, General Iroh.  And this time, I brought you an extra bowl of rice.;Thank you, Ming. Your little gestures of kindness have made my days in prison bearable.  I think you should take the rest of the day off.
What?;You don't look well. Maybe you should go home and rest.
No, I feel fine.;Trust me. It is better that you are not here this afternoon.
So, this is it huh?;Are you ready for the Fire Nation to know the Avatar is alive?
I'm ready.;I hope you kick some serious Fire Lord butt, Twinkle Toes.
Aang, don't say that, of course you'll-;Katara, what are you doing? It's time to submerge.
Communin' with nature. Takes a while to collect this much seaweed.;Dad, look out!
Sokka, we've gotta take out those battlements! It's our only chance.;I've got an idea.
Dad?;Dad!
Everyone's counting on me to lead this mission Katara, I won't let them down.  Ahh!;Can't you heal him any faster?
I'm doing everything I can.;I'll do it.
No offense Sokka, but you're not exactly Mr. Healing Hands.;No.  I'll lead the invasion force.
Don't be crazy Sokka.;Maybe I am a little crazy, but the eclipse is about to start and we need to be up that volcano by the time it does.
I still think you're crazy, but I'm proud of you too.;Yip yip.
Thanks to your sister. I'm in no shape to fight, but maybe there's some way I can help.;Everything's going smoothly and the eclipse hasn't even kicked in yet.
Yeah. Is that ... is that Aang?;What?  Please tell me you're here because the Fire Lord turned out to be a big wimp and you didn't even need the eclipse to take him down.
He wasn't home. No one was. The entire palace city is abandoned.;They knew.
It's over. The Fire Lord is probably long-gone; far away on some remote island where he'll be safe during the eclipse.;No. My instincts tell me he wouldn't go too far. He would have a secret bunker; somewhere he could go and be safe during the siege but still be close enough to lead his nation.
No. My instincts tell me he wouldn't go too far. He would have a secret bunker; somewhere he could go and be safe during the siege but still be close enough to lead his nation.;If it's an underground secret bunker we're looking for,  I'm just the girl to find it.
If it's an underground secret bunker we're looking for,  I'm just the girl to find it.;The mechanist gave me this timing device. It looks like we've got about ten minutes until the full eclipse. Ten minutes to find the Fire Lord.
Everyone who's here today came prepared to risk everything for this mission. They know what's at stake. If there's still a chance and there's still hope, I think they would want Aang to go for it.;What do you think? You're the one that has to face the Fire Lord. Whatever you decide, I'm with you.
Do you feel anything down there?;Yep. There are natural tunnels criss-crossing through the inside of the volcano.
Yep. There are natural tunnels criss-crossing through the inside of the volcano.;Anything else? Is there a structure somewhere?
Anything else? Is there a structure somewhere?;There is something big, dense and made of metal deep in the heart of the volcano.
There is something big, dense and made of metal deep in the heart of the volcano.;Sounds like a secret bunker to me.
Stay safe. We'll be back soon.;This way! That one's a dead end!
This way! That one's a dead end!;What would we do without you?
What would we do without you?;Perish in burning hot magma.
Perish in burning hot magma.;Yeah, pretty much.
Yeah, pretty much.;The tunnel continues on the other side and It leads right to the bunker.
The tunnel continues on the other side and It leads right to the bunker.;We'll have to be fast, but careful.
How is that careful?;I was wrong. We need to be fast, careful and lucky.
Climb aboard and hold on tight.;That's some door!
That's some door!;Not a problem.
Not a problem.;I am so glad we added you to the group!
Thanks!;Only thirty seconds until the total eclipse.
You mean I'm not good enough for you?  You're hurting my feelings.;Stop wasting our time and give us the information.  You're powerless right now, so you're in no position to refuse.
Stop wasting our time and give us the information.  You're powerless right now, so you're in no position to refuse.;And stick to the truth. I'll be able to tell if you're lying.
Are you sure? I'm a pretty good liar.  I am a four-hundred foot tall purple platypus bear with pink horns and silver wings.;Okay, you're good, I admit it.  But you ought to consider telling the truth anyway!
I can't pin her down! She's too quick!;Wait! Aang! Toph! Stop attacking! Don't you see what she's doing? She's just playing with us. She's not even trying to win this fight!
Not true. I'm giving it my all.;You're trying to keep us here and waste all our time!
Um, right, I think your friend just said that, genius. And since you can't see, I should tell you I'm rolling my eyes.;I'll roll your whole head!
I'll roll your whole head!;She's just baiting you again.
Okay, so what do we do, just ignore her?;We don't have a choice. We just have to get out of here and find the Fire Lord on our own somehow.
It's a trap. Don't say I didn't warn you.;Ignore!
Come and get it.;Where. Is. Suki?!
My father, Fire Lord Azulon, had commanded me to do the unthinkable to you, my own son, and I was going to do it.  Your mother found out and swore she would protect you at any cost.  She knew I wanted the throne and she proposed a plan, a plan in which I would become Fire Lord and your life would be spared.;Where's Suki? Answer me!
Sokka, she won't talk.;Where are you keeping her?
Dad's all the way at the end of the hall then down a secret stairway on the left. I'm sure he'd be more than happy to see you now.;I fell for it! I used up all our time.
I fell for it! I used up all our time.;It's not your fault, Sokka. Azula was ready for us. She had every move planned out.
It's not your fault, Sokka. Azula was ready for us. She had every move planned out.;And now it's too late.
Maybe it's not too late. The eclipse is over. But I can face the Fire Lord anyway.;No. I don't think that's a good idea.
But I'm ready! I came here with a job to do and everyone's counting on me.;The Fire Lord knew we were coming this time. We thought we had surprise on our side but we didn't. It just wasn't our day. What we need to do now is go and help our friends.
I guess you guys are right.;You'll have another chance. I know you will.
They're back!;It was all a trap! Azula knew we were coming and she's plotted out every move!  We've just got to get to the beach as fast as we can.  If we can make it to the submarines, maybe we can get away safely.
Appa, you and I can help too.;Everyone, let's get back to the subs!
He's gone. He busted himself out. I've never seen anything like it, he was like a one-man army!;Try and find cover! I think we're about to see some bombs!
They're heading for the beach ...  They're gonna destroy the submarines!;How are we all going to escape?
We're not.;Then our only choice is to stand and fight. We have the Avatar, we could still win.
I've got some experience with the Fire Nation prisons. It's not going to be easy, but we'll get by.;They're at the beach already!
We'll miss you, Dad.;Bye, Dad. We won't be apart for too long this time. I promise.
This is humiliating.;You mean getting thoroughly spanked by the Fire Nation or having to walk all the way to the Western Air Temple?
I miss Pipsqueak.;I miss not having blisters on my feet.
I miss not having blisters on my feet.;Hey, we're here! I can feel it!
No, she's right. We are here!;Wow ... it's amazing!
Wow ... it's amazing!;What a stunning view.
The only view I'm interested in seeing is the Avatar in chains.;You know, the Avatar hasn't been seen for one hundred years. The chances of finding him here are very slim.
First we'll check each of the air temples, then we'll scour the world, searching even the most remote locations until we find him.;Prince Zuko, it's only been a week since your banishment. You should take some time to heal and rest.
Fair enough. So, what's the new plan?;Well, if you ask me, the new plan is the old plan! You just need to master all four elements and confront the Fire Lord before the comet comes.
Yeah ... right.  Like we'll ever run into Jeong Jeong again.;Who's ... oh,  never mind. If it's important I'll find out.
Oh well, guess we can't come up with anybody. Why don't we just take a nice tour around the temple?;What's up with him?
What's up with him?;There's gotta be someone who can teach him firebending.
What? The wind is too loud in my ears! Check out this loop!;Aang, I think we should be making some plans about our future!
Okay, we can do that while I show you the giant Pai Sho table! Oh, you're gonna love the all-day echo chamber!;I think that'll have to wait.
Hey, I heard you guys flying around down there, so, I just thought I'd wait for you here.  I know you must be surprised to see me here.;Not really, since you've followed us all over the world.
Right. Well, uhhh ... anyway ... what I wanted to tell you about is that I've changed, and I, uhhh, I'm good now, and well I think I should join your group, oh, and I can teach firebending to you.  See, I, uhhh ...;You want to what now?
You can't possibly think that any of us would trust you, can you? I mean, how stupid do you think we are?!;Yeah, all you've ever done is hunt us down and try to capture Aang!
I've done some good things! I mean, I could have stolen your bison in Ba Sing Se, but I set him free. That's something!;Appa  does seem to like him.
Appa  does seem to like him.;He probably just covered himself in honey or something so that Appa would lick him. I'm not buying it.
I can understand why you wouldn't trust me, and I know I've made some mistakes in the past.;Like when you attacked our village?
Look, I admit I've some awful things. I was wrong to try to capture you, and I'm sorry that I attacked the Water Tribe. And I never should have sent that Fire Nation assassin after you.  I'm going to try and stop-;Wait, you sent Combustion Man after us?
Well, that's not his name, but-;Ohhh, sorry. I didn't mean to insult your friend!
He's not my friend!;That guy locked me and Katara in jail and tried to blow us all up!
I'm trying to explain that I'm not that person anymore!;Either you leave, or we attack.
Why would he try to fool us like that?;Obviously he wants to lead us into some kind of trap.
This is just like when we were in prison together at Ba Sing Se. He starts talking about his mother and making it seem like he's an actual human being with feelings.;He wants you to trust and feel sorry for him so you let your guard down, then he strikes.
I kind of have a confession to make. Remember when you two were sick and I got captured by Zhao?;And you made us suck on frozen frogs? How could I forget? I had a wart on the flap that hangs down from the back of my throat for a month!
Sokka, I looked at it, and I told you, there was nothing there!;I could feel it! It's my throatal flap!
No way! I'm sure he only did it so he could capture you himself!;Yeah, face it Aang, you're nothing but a big prize to him.
And what was all that crazy stuff about setting Appa free? What a liar!;Actually, he wasn't lying.
Actually, he wasn't lying.;Oh, hooray! In a lifetime of evil, at least he didn't add animal cruelty to the list.
Oh, hooray! In a lifetime of evil, at least he didn't add animal cruelty to the list.;I'm just saying that, considering his messed-up family and how he was raised, he could have turned out a lot worse.
You're right, Toph! Let's go find him and give him a medal. The not as much of a jerk as you could have been award!;All I know is that while he was talking to us, he was sincere. Maybe you're all just letting your hurt feelings keep you from thinking clearly.
Easy for you to say! You weren't there when he had us attacked by pirates!;Or when he burned down Kyoshi Island!
Why would you even try to defend him?;Because Katara, you're all ignoring one crucial fact:  Aang needs a firebending teacher! We can't think of a single person in the world to do the job! Now one shows up on a silver platter, and you won't even think about it?
I'm not having Zuko as my teacher!;You're darn right you're not, buddy.
Well, I guess that settles that.;Ergh! I'm beginning to wonder who's really the blind one around here!
Who's there? Stay back!;It's me!  Ow! You burned my feet!
I'm sorry, it was a mistake!;Get away from me!
Let me help you!  I'm sorry!;Get off me, get off me!
Has anyone seen Toph?;I haven't seen her since she stormed off yesterday.
I think we should go look for her.;Let her have fun with her rocks. I'm in no rush to have her yelling at us again.
Toph! What happened?;My feet got burned!
Oh no, what happened?;I just told you, my feet got burned!
I meant, how.;Well, I kind of went to see Zuko last night.
Zuko?;Uhhh ...!
Uhhh ...!;I thought he could be helpful to us.  And if I talked to him, maybe we could work something out.
I thought he could be helpful to us.  And if I talked to him, maybe we could work something out.;So he attacked you?
So he attacked you?;Well, he did, and he didn't. It was sort of an accident.
But he did firebend at you?;Yes.
Yes.;See? You trusted Zuko, and you got burned. Literally!
It's gonna take a while for your feet to get better.  I wish I could have worked on them sooner.;Yeah, me too.
Yeah, me too.;Zuko's clearly too dangerous to be left alone. We're gonna have to go after him.
I hate to go looking for a fight, but you're right. After what he did to Toph, I don't think we have a choice.;He's crafty, but we'll find a way to capture him.
He's crafty, but we'll find a way to capture him.;Maybe just invite him back here.  He's already offered himself up as a prisoner once.
Maybe just invite him back here.  He's already offered himself up as a prisoner once.;Yeah, get him to come back and say he'll be our prisoner, then we'll jump him and really make him our prisoner. He'll never suspect it!
You are a master of surprise, Sokka ...;Ahhh, that's the stuff. Now I know how the rest of you guys feel. Not being able to see with your feet stinks.
If you keep attacking, I won't pay you!  All right, I'll pay you double to stop!;He's going to blast this whole place right off the cliff side!
I can't step out to waterbend at him without being blown up and I can't get a good enough angle on him from down here.;I know how to get an angle on him!  All right buddy, don't fail me now!
I can't believe I'm saying this, but ... thanks, Zuko.;Hey, what about me? I did the boomerang thing.
Not so fast. I still have to ask my friends if it's okay with them.  Toph, you're the one that Zuko burned. What do you think?;Go ahead and let him join.  It'll give me plenty of time to get back at him for burning my feet.
Sokka?;Hey, all I want is to defeat the Fire Lord. If you think this is the way to do it, then, I'm all for it.
I won't let you down! I promise!;So, here you go, home sweet home, I guess, you know, for now. Unpack? Lunch, soon? Uhhh ... welcome aboard?  Yeah.  Okay, this is really, really weird.
If I have to, I will spend every day of the rest of my life hunting the Avatar. I know it's my destiny to capture him.;You know Prince Zuko, destiny is a funny thing. You never know how things are going to work out. But if you keep an open mind, and an open heart, I promise you will find your own destiny someday.
And stop calling me that!;Hey, jerks! Mind if I watch you two jerks do your jerkbending?
Get out of here!;Okay, take it easy.  I was just kiddin' around.  Jerkbending, still got it.
Listen everybody, I've got some pretty bad news. I've lost my stuff.;Don't look at me,  I didn't touch your stuff.
Maybe you're not as good as you think you are.;Ouch.
I don't know. Maybe it isn't. Maybe your firebending comes from rage and you just don't have enough anger to fuel it the way you used to.;Sooo, all we need to do is make Zuko angry. Easy enough.
Okay, cut it out!  Look, even if you're right, I don't want to rely on hate and anger anymore. There has to be another way.;You're gonna need to learn to draw your firebending from a different source. I recommend the original source.
You're gonna need to learn to draw your firebending from a different source. I recommend the original source.;How's he supposed to do that‌? By jumping into a volcano‌?
How's he supposed to do that‌? By jumping into a volcano‌?;No. Zuko needs to go back to whatever the original source of firebending is.
No. Zuko needs to go back to whatever the original source of firebending is.;So, is it jumping into a volcano?
So, is it jumping into a volcano?;I don't know.  For earthbending, the original benders were badgermoles.
It's like the monks used to tell me. Sometimes, the shadows of the past can be felt by the present.;So, what?  Maybe you'll pick up some super old Sun Warrior energy just by standing  where they stood a thousand years ago?
With this technique the dragons showed us, Zuko and I will be unstoppable.;Yeah, that's a great dance you two learned there.
It's not a dance. It's a firebending form.;We'll just tap-dance our way to victory over the Fire Lord.
I like jokes.;Bring it!
Right ... maybe that's because he remembers the whole thing.;It's nice to get a chance to relax a little. It hardly ever happens.
It's nice to get a chance to relax a little. It hardly ever happens.;Hey, can I talk to you for a second?
So, what's up?;If someone was captured by the Fire Nation, where would they be taken?
What do you mean? Who was captured?;When the invasion plan failed, some of our troops were taken. I just want to know where they might be.
I can't tell you.;What? Why not?
Trust me. Knowing would just make you feel worse.;It's my dad. He was captured too. I need to know what I put him through.
It's not good, Sokka.;Please.
My guess is, they were taken to the Boiling Rock.;What's that?
The highest security prison in the Fire Nation.  It's on an island in the middle of a boiling lake. It's inescapable.;So, where is this place?
Why do you need to know? What are you planning?;Nothing.  Boy, you're so paranoid.
It's in the middle of a volcano between here and the Fire Nation. You guys actually flew right past it on your way here.;Thanks, Zuko.  Just knowing makes me feel better.
Yeah, I'm sure it does.;Shhh.
Not up to anything, huh?;Fine, you caught me. I'm gonna rescue my dad. You happy now?
I'm never happy.;Look, I have to do this. The invasion plan was my idea, it was my decision to stay when things were going wrong.  It's my mistake, and it's my job to fix it. I have to regain my honor. You can't stop me, Zuko.
You need to regain your honor? Believe me, I get it. I'm going with you.;No. I have to do this alone.
How are you going to get there? On Appa? Last time I checked, prisons don't have bison daycares.  We'll take my war balloon.;What does it say?
Nobody else has homework.  One hot squat, two hot squat, three hot squat, four hot squat ...;Pretty clouds.
Yeah ... fluffy.  What?;What? Oh, I didn't say anything. You know, a friend of mine actually designed these war balloons.
No kidding.;Yep, a balloon ... but for war.
If there's one thing my dad's good at, it's war.;Yeah, it seems to run in the family.
Hey, hold on. Not everyone in my family is like that.;I know, I know, you've changed.
I meant my uncle. He was more of a father to me. And I really let him down.;I think your uncle would be proud of you. Leaving your home to come help us? That's hard.
It wasn't that hard.;Really? You didn't leave behind anyone you cared about?
Well, I did have a girlfriend. Mai.;That gloomy girl who sighs a lot?
Yeah. Everyone in the Fire Nation thinks I'm a traitor. I couldn't drag her into it.;My first girlfriend turned into the moon.
We're going down! The balloon's not working anymore!;The air outside is just as hot as the air inside so we can't fly!
So what are we supposed to do?;I don't know! Crash-landing?
How are we gonna get off the island if the balloon won't work?;We'll figure something out! I suspected it might be a one-way ticket.
You knew this would happen and you wanted to come anyway?;My dad might be here! I had to come and see!
Uncle always said I never thought things through. But this ... this is just crazy!;Hey, I never wanted you to come along in the first place! And for the record, I always think things through! But my plans haven't exactly worked, so this time, I'm playing it by ear. So there.
What are you doing?;It doesn't work anyway, and we don't want anyone to find it.
I hope these disguises work.;We just need to lay low and find my dad as soon as possible.
Stop right there, Chit Sang.;We can't blow our cover.
Uh, very cute, sir.;Super cute.
Tsk, tsk. Firebending is prohibited. You're going in the cooler.  You! Help me take him in.;Meet back here in an hour.
The warden will deal with you soon.  Can you believe this guy?;Prisoners! Am I right?
No, that's not it. The Boiling Rock, it holds the Fire Nation's most dangerous criminals, right?  So what about war prisoners?;It sure looks cold in there.
Hey there, fellow guard, how goes it?;Zuko?
Shhh! Listen, I asked around the lounge. There are no Water Tribe prisoners.  I'm afraid your father's not here.;What? Are you sure, did you double-check?
Yeah, I'm sure.;No. No!
I'm really sorry, Sokka.;So we came all this way for nothing? I failed ... again.
Ah,  what would Uncle say?  Sometimes, clouds have two sides,  a dark and light, and a silver lining in between. It's like a silver sandwich!  So ... when life seems hard ...  take a bite out of the silver sandwich!;Maybe we haven't failed after all!
That's the spirit!  I can't believe that worked.  I didn't even know what I was saying.;No, what you said made no sense at all. But look ...  It's Suki!
What is it? Did I do something wrong?;You mean you don't recognize me?
You people all look the same to me.;Oh? Then maybe you'll recognize this.
Sokka!  It's you!;The other Kyoshi Warriors, are they here?
No. I don't know where they are. They locked me in here because I'm the leader.;Well, you won't be here for long. I'm busting you out.
Get him off me and arrest him!;You're under arrest!  Don't worry, I'll figure it out.
Oh, in due time, believe me, I intend to collect.;Oh, good, you guys have met.
Oh, sorry about that. Nice to see you again.;So, listen, I think I have an escape plan. I checked out the coolers again, and the point of them is to keep firebenders contained, right?
Yeah ...;So, they're completely insulated and sealed to keep the cold in. Well, to keep the cold in, it also has to keep the heat out, right?
Just get to the point, Sokka.;It's a perfect boat for getting through the boiling water.
The cooler as a boat? Are you sure?;I'm telling you, it'll work.  I walked around the perimeter. There's a blind spot between two guard towers. It's the perfect launching point.  I already tested it out. We'll roll the cooler into the water and just float with the current. It'll take us straight across. As long as we don't make a sound, no one will notice.  And bing-bang-boom, we're home free.
Yeah, how are you going to get the cooler out?;What? We didn't ... w-we didn't say that.
There's nothing to get in on.;Yeah, the only thing we're hatching is ... an egg?
I guess we have no choice.;Okay, you're in.  Now first we need someone to unbolt the cooler, from the inside.
I think you mean whom I'm shoving!;I need backup over here!
No firebending!  Into the cooler!;I can take you back to your cell if you've learned your lesson.
Yes, I have ... completely.;I got Suki and Chit Sang out of their cells a few minutes ago. They'll be waiting for us at the shore.
War prisoners. It could be your father.;I know.
Well, what should we do? Are we going ahead with the plan or are we waiting another night?;I don't know! Is it right for me to risk Suki's freedom, all of our freedom on the slim chance that my dad is gonna show up?
Took you guys long enough.  This here's my girl and my best buddy, they're coming too.;Fine. Everybody in the cooler. Let's go.
Your dad?;If I had just cut my losses at the invasion, maybe we wouldn't be in this mess. Maybe sometimes it's just better to call it quits before you fail.
No, it's not. Look Sokka, you're going to fail a lot before things work out.;That supposed to make me feel better?
Even though you'll probably fail over and over and over again ...;Seriously, not helping.
Hey, if you two are done cuddling, can we get a move on?;No. I'm staying. You guys go.  You've been here long enough.
Not me, I'm out. Let's roll, baby.;We gave up our only chance of escaping. I hope we haven't just made a huge mistake.
Guards! Secure the perimeter and lock down the prisoners! Now!;The plan failed! They're caught!
One that's bolted down and not floating in the water! This is a lockdown! We have new prisoners arriving! Everything must be completely secure!;The gondola's moving.  This is it.  If my dad's not there, we've risked everything for nothing.
We had to.;Come on, come on ...
Is that him?;My dad doesn't have a nose ring.  Where is he?  That's it? That can't be it.
I'm sorry, Sokka.;Oh, no.
Hey, you! Get off the gondola!;Dad ...
Line 'em up for the warden!;Dad ...  Excuse me, coming through. The warden wants me over there.  Sorry!
I'm fine! Get these prisoners out of my sight!;Thank goodness you're okay.
If you take one step closer, you'll see just how okay I am.;Dad, it's me.
Sokka,  my son.  You know Sokka, you should be more careful with that guard outfit on. I almost punched you in the gut.;Yeah, I ran into that problem earlier.
I know you and your cronies are not smart enough to come up with that little escape plan. So you're gonna tell me ...  who is?;So where's Bato?  Where's everyone else from the invasion?
The others are being held at a prison near the Fire Nation palace. They singled me out as their leader and sent me here.  But before I left, I met some young women who said they knew you. The ... Oshinama Fighters?;You mean the Kyoshi Warriors?
That's right.;Their leader Suki is here and she's gonna escape with us.
Good. We'll need all the help we can get.;And you know Prince Zuko?
The son of the Fire Lord? I don't know him, but I know of him.;Well, he's here too.
Sounds like a major problem.;Actually, he's on our side now.  I know. I had the same reaction. After all he's done, it was hard to trust him. But he's really proven himself, and I never would've found you without his help.
So, do you have a plan?;We had one, but some of the other prisoners got involved and ruined it.  I dunno if there's another way off this island.
Sokka, there's no prison in the world that can hold two Water Tribe geniuses.;Then we'd better find two.
I'm here.;I just got done talking to my dad. We came up with an escape plan together.
What are you doing here?;I was just telling this dirty lowlife what I think of him!
Well, you'll have to do that later. He's coming with us.;Why?
Because we have orders straight from the warden, that's why!;Could I just get ten more seconds to rough him up a bit?
Fine, ten seconds.;Take that ... and this!
Newbie.;We have a new plan, but it's gonna need a big distraction.  Be in the yard in one hour.
Sokka, what's going on?;I don't have much time. If I'm seen with you the guards might think something's up.  I just talked to my dad.
That's great.;Yeah, and we're escaping today, on the gondola.
What?;My dad and I came up with the plan together. We're gonna commandeer the gondola  and we're gonna take a hostage with us so they won't cut the lines.
We'll never make it onto the gondola. There's too many guards.;My dad already thought of that. He said we'll need a distraction. That's why we're gonna start a prison riot.
Okay, let's say by some miracle this all works and we make it on the gondola. The warden will still just cut the lines, even if we have a captive.;Not if the warden is the captive.  I have to go.  I'll find you before we start the riot.
Hey, you, the warden wants to see you!;Why?
I don't know, I didn't ask.;Maybe I could schedule another time with him? How's tomorrow?
Because I'm a people person.;Hey, I just got orders. Let the prisoners out into the yard.
But we're in the middle of a lockdown.;Oh, okay, I'll just go tell the warden you said that.  I'm sure he'll be glad to hear about you undermining his authority.  What's your name again?
Wait! Don't tell the warden. I'm just a little confused.;Hey, I'm confused too, but the warden's in a bad mood, and ... irrational, so if you ask me, it's best not to question it, and just do what he says.
Yeah ... you're right. We're letting them out!;This is it! We have to start a riot.
Uh, well, normally I would be, but I've been learning to control my anger.;This isn't working.
Hey you! You're lucky I didn't rat you out,  but my generosity comes with a price. I know you're planning another escape attempt, and I want in.;Actually, we're trying to escape right now, but we need a riot.  You wouldn't happen to know how to start one, would you?
Get off of me!;Zuko! Good, we're all here. Now all we need to do is grab the warden, and get to the gondolas!
And how do we do that?;I'm not sure.
I thought you thought this through!;I thought you told me it's okay not to think everything through!
That's some girl.;Tell me about it.
Everyone in!;What are you doing?
I'm making it so they can't stop us.;Way to think ahead.
Saving the jerk who dumped me.;Who's that?
Well, we made it out. Now what?;Zuko, what are you doing?
My sister was on that island.;Yeah, and she's probably right behind us, so let's not stop!
Sounds like a crazy fishing trip.;Did you at least get some good meat?
Did you at least get some good meat?;I did. The best meat of all. The meat of friendship and fatherhood.
How are you here? What is going on? Where did you go?;We kind of went to a Fire Nation prison.
We kind of went to a Fire Nation prison.;Seriously? You guys didn't find any meat?
I'll take that as a thank you.;Come on! We can get out through here!
Zuko! No!;Come on! We've gotta get out of here!
We'll have to find a way!;We need to split up.  Take the tunnel and get to the stolen airship.
It'll be okay. It's not forever.;I can clear that away and we can fly out through there!
Ha, ha.;To Zuko! Who knew after all those times he tried to snuff us out, today he'd be our hero?
Yeah, no kidding.;What's with her?
I wish I knew.;What's with him?
Nope, not me!;Well, hello ...  Uh, Zuko! Yes, why would I be expecting anyone different?  So what's on your mind?
Your sister. She hates me! And I don't know why, but I do care what she thinks of me.;Nah, she doesn't hate you. Katara doesn't hate anyone. Except maybe some people in the Fire Nation.  No, I mean, uh, not people who are good, but used to be bad. I mean, bad people. Fire Nation people who are still bad, who've never been good and probably won't be, ever!
Stop. Okay, listen. I know this may seem out of nowhere, but I want you to tell me what happened to your mother.;What? Why would you want to know that?
Katara mentioned it before when we were imprisoned together in Ba Sing Se, and again just now when she was yelling at me. I think somehow she's connected her anger at that to her anger at me.;It's not a day I like to remember.
I'm going to find Mom!;Many of the warriors had seen the black snow before and they knew what it meant: a Fire Nation raid.  We were badly outnumbered, but somehow, we managed to drive them off. As quickly as they came, they just left.
Wait. Can you remember any details about the soldiers who raided your village? Like what the lead ship looked like?;Yeah ... sea ravens.  The main ship had flags with sea ravens on them.
The symbol of the Southern Raiders. Thanks, Sokka.;No problem. Thanks for stopping by!  I'd thought he'd never leave.  Suki!
It's not the same! Jet attacked the innocent. This man, he's a monster.;Katara, she was my mother, too, but I think Aang might be right.
Then you didn't love her the way I did!;Katara!
Thanks for understanding, Aang. Yip-yip.;You know, you're pretty wise for a kid.
Thanks, Sokka.;Usually it's annoying, but right now, I'm impressed.
I appreciate that.;So, can I borrow Momo for a week?
I told you,  my father hasn't come here since our family was actually happy. And that was a long time ago. It's the last place anyone would think to look for us.;You guys are not gonna believe this! There's a play about us.
What? How is that possible?;Listen to this ...  The Boy in the Iceberg is a new production from acclaimed playwright Pu-on Tim,  who scoured the globe gathering information on the Avatar, from the icy South Pole to the heart of Ba Sing Se.  His sources include singing nomads, pirates, prisoners of war, and a surprisingly knowledgeable merchant of cabbage.
Sokka, do you really think it's a good idea for us to attend a play about ourselves?;Come on, a day at the theater? This is the kind of wacky time-wasting nonsense I've been missing!
I was just, I wanted to ... okay.;Why are we sitting in the nosebleed section? My feet can't see a thing from up here!
Well, I'm trying to get it out of my mind and into my mouth! I'm starving!;This is pathetic! My jokes are way funnier than this!
This is pathetic! My jokes are way funnier than this!;I think he's got you pegged!
Well, that's just silly. I don't sound like that.;Oh man! This writer's a genius!
I don't do that! That's not what I'm like! And I'm not a woman!;Oh, they nailed you, Twinkle Toes!
You never told me you made out with a Moon Spirit.;Shhh!  I'm trying to watch!
So far, this intermission is the best part of the play.;Apparently, the playwright thinks I'm an idiot who tells bad jokes about meat all the time!
Yeah, you tell bad jokes about plenty of other topics.;I know!
At least the Sokka actor kind of looks like you.  That woman playing the Avatar doesn't resemble me at all!;I don't know, you are more in touch with your feminine side than most guys.
Yeah, that's not you at all.;Listen friends, it's obvious that the playwright did his research. I know it must hurt, but what you're seeing up there on that stage is the truth.
I'd better have a look around to see if I can find an earthbending teacher!;This is it, this must be where I come in!
I flew all over town, but I couldn't find a single earthbending master!;Here it comes ...
My name's Toph,  because it sounds like tough, and that's just what I am!;Wait a minute,   I sound like a guy. A really buff guy.
Well Toph, what you hear up there is the truth. It hurts, doesn't it?;Are you kidding me? I wouldn't have cast it any other way!  At least it's not a flying bald lady!
Did Jet just ... die?;You know, it was really unclear.
The Avatar?  Why, he's like a little brother to me!  I certainly don't think of him in a romantic way.  Besides, how could he ever find out about ... this?;Oh, you're getting up?  Can you get me some fire flakes?  Ooh, and fire gummies!
It seems like every time there's a big battle, you guys barely make it out alive. I mean, you guys lose a lot!;You're one to talk, Suki. Didn't Azula take you captive? That's right, she did!
Are you trying to get on my bad side?;I'm just saying ...
Does anyone know where Aang is?;He left to get me fire gummies, like, ten minutes ago. And I'm still waiting!
Overreacting? If I hadn't blocked my chakra, I'd probably be in the Avatar State right now!;Suki, what are the chances you can get me backstage? I got some jokes I want to give to the actor me.
I'm an elite warrior who's trained for many years in the art of stealth.  I think I could get you backstage!;Geez, everyone's getting so upset about their characters. Even you seem more down than usual, and that's saying something!
You don't get it, it's different for you. You get a muscly version of yourself, taking down ten bad guys at once, and making sassy remarks.;Yeah, that's pretty great!
But for me, it takes all the mistakes I've made in my life, and shoves them back in my face. My uncle, he's always been on my side, even when things were bad. He was there for me, he taught me so much, and how do I repay him? With a knife in his back. It's my greatest regret, and I may never get to redeem myself.;You have redeemed yourself to your uncle. You don't realize it, but you already have.
How do you know?;Because I once had a long conversation with the guy, and all he would talk about was you.
Really?;Yeah, and it was kind of annoying.
Oh, sorry.;But it was also very sweet. All your uncle wanted was for you to find your own path, and see the light. Now you're here with us. He'd be proud.
Ow! What was that for?;That's how I show affection.
Can I help you?;Actually, I think I can help you. I'm a big Sokka fan, but I don't think you're representing him quite as well as you could be.
Aww no, another fan with ideas.;Just hear me out.  Here's something I think the real Sokka would say.  What does the cabbage merchant use to fix his cabbages? A cabbage patch!
That's actually pretty good! Let me see those!  A rocky relationship ... not bad!;Also, don't be afraid to make up some phrases, especially before an attack. Something like ... Flying kick-a-pow!.
Who are you, anyway?;I'm just a guy who likes comedy.
Ugh, I'm such an idiot!;Here's what you missed ... we went to the Fire Nation, and you got better, and Katara was the Painted Lady, and I got a sword, and I think Combustion Man died. Oh, look, the Invasion's about to start! Shhh!
Hey Toph, would you say you and Aang have a rocky relationship?;I told him to say that!
I guess we have no choice. Come on!;I guess that's it. The play's caught up to the present now.
Wait, the play's not over!;But it is over, unless ...  this is the future.
Horrible.;You said it.
You said it.;But the effects were decent.
Fine!  If you want to lounge around like a bunch of snail sloths all day, then go ahead!;Maybe Zuko's right. Sitting around the house has made us pretty lazy. But I know  just the thing to change all that.  Beach party!
Check out my Appa sand sculpture.;Not bad, baldy,  but I've been working on my sandbending.  You're gonna love this.
Whoa! Wow, you've even made a little Earth King and Bosco.;Try and top that, Sokka.
Try and top that, Sokka.;Ta da!
Is that a blubbering blob monster?;No, it's Suki!
No, it's Suki!;Suki, we'll all understand if you break up with him over this.
What happened?;Zuko's gone crazy! I made a sand sculpture of Suki and he destroyed it!  Oh, and he's attacking Aang.
I'm not ready. I need more time to master firebending.;And frankly, your earthbending could still use some work too.
So, you all knew Aang was going to wait?;Honestly, if Aang tries to fight the Fire Lord now, he's going to lose.  No offense.
I can't believe this.;I always knew the Fire Lord was a bad guy, but his plan is just pure evil.
Aang, you don't have to do this alone.;Yeah, if we all fight the Fire Lord together, we got a shot at taking him down.
Yeah, if we all fight the Fire Lord together, we got a shot at taking him down.;All right! Team Avatar is back! Air.  Water.  Earth.  Fire.  Fan and sword!
Fighting the Fire Lord is going to be the hardest thing we've ever done together, but I wouldn't want to do it any other way.;Yeah.
Yeah.;All right.
Yeah, I'll just do that.;Gather round, Team Avatar.  In order to take out the Fire Lord - or in this case, the Melon Lord - our timing has to be perfect.  First, Suki and I will draw his fire. Then, Katara and Zuko charge in with some liquidy hot offense,  and while the Melon Lord is distracted,  Aang swoops in ... and bam!  He delivers the final blow.
Gather round, Team Avatar.  In order to take out the Fire Lord - or in this case, the Melon Lord - our timing has to be perfect.  First, Suki and I will draw his fire. Then, Katara and Zuko charge in with some liquidy hot offense,  and while the Melon Lord is distracted,  Aang swoops in ... and bam!  He delivers the final blow.;Uh ... what about me?
Uh ... what about me?;For now, you're the Melon Lord's forces.
For now, you're the Melon Lord's forces.;So I get to chuck flaming rocks at all of you?
So I get to chuck flaming rocks at all of you?;Whatever makes the training feel more realistic.
Whatever makes the training feel more realistic.;Sweetness.
Mwah-ha-ha-ha!;Watch it, Toph!
