speaker,line
Katara,Wow, this is amazing to watch.
n/a,Cut closer to a side-view of the group.
Sokka,Kind of makes you realize how insignificant we are.
Toph,[Close-up. Causally.] Eh, you've seen nothing once, you've seen it a thousand times.
n/a,Cut further away showing the meteor shower above them. They see a big meteor heading for the ground and let out gasps of amazement.
Sokka,Oh man, [Close-up. Standing.] you've never not seen anything like this.
n/a,The others, minus Toph, stand up next to him. Cut to panning shot as the meteor flies past. Cut to overhead shot of meteor as it flies past the group. Cut to side-view of the group as the meteor passes over head. Cut to Sokka as he turns to see the meteor crash nearby. Cut to the other side of a hill as Toph climbs up. Cut to wide shot as the camera zooms out with the group looking toward the crash site. Frontal view of Aang, Katara and Sokka who look at each other concerned. Cut to the team arriving at the crash site on Appa.
Katara,The fire is gonna destroy that town!
Aang,Not if we can stop it!
n/a,Cut to Appa landing next to the crash site. Everyone but Katara jumps off.
Katara,[Jumps onto Appa's head, taking the reins.] There's a creek over here. I'll bend the water onto the fire. [Signals Appa to take off.]
Aang,[Frontal view of Toph, Sokka, and Aang.] Toph, let's make a trench to stop the fire from coming any closer.
n/a,Toph and Aang move off. Sokka looks down.
Sokka,What should I do?
n/a,Cut to view from Sokka's perspective as Toph and Aang stop to respond. Momo flies by.
Aang,[Slight pause, points at Momo.] Keep an eye on Momo.
n/a,Cut to aerial view of Sokka. Momo lands on his shoulder.
Sokka,So what, I'm just a lemur sitter? [Pets Momo; sarcastically.] There, there, feel better?
n/a,Cut to Aang and Toph as they begin to earthbend. Cut to aerial shot as a trench forms. Briefly cut back to Aang and Toph continuing to earthbend. Cut to aerial shot as they finish the trench, pushing the fire back. Cut to aerial view of Sokka as flames fly near him and land on the ground. Sokka puts out one with his machete, however Momo ups him by putting out five in the same time, much to his dismay. Cut to Katara on Appa flying over a river. Katara grabs some water and they return to the crash site. Cut to side-view of Katara, on Appa, with a large globule of water following behind. Frontal view of Katara as she begins to waterbend the water behind her. Side-view of the crash site as Sokka and Momo look on while Katara puts out some of the fire with her waterbending. Cut to Toph beginning to earthbend. Cut to aerial view of her and the nearby crash site as she uses earthbending to put some of the fire out. Cut to Sokka, who sits, watching, along with Momo as the earth Toph is using rolls past. Cut to Aang as Appa flies past with Katara. Katara gives Aang some water to bend.waterbending and airbending to put the rest of the fire out, but the water hits Sokka and Aang's blast also makes it snow.
Aang,Sokka, stand clear!
Sokka,[Side-view of the crash site with Sokka and Momo looking left.] Right. [Picks up Momo and makes to move away.] Staying clear, got it.
n/a,Cut to Aang as he begins to use both the water and airbending. Cut to frontal view of Sokka still walking away as the water overwhelms him. Cut to aerial view of the crash site as the water expands to put out the fire. The dome of water explodes into snow. Cut to frontal view of Aang as Appa, along with Katara, lands behind him as Toph walks toward him, too.
Aang,Good work, everybody.
n/a,Aerial view of the town and crash site. Cut to Sokka as he emerges from a pile of snow. Momo slides across the icy surface. Cut to a Fire Nation prison. Cut inside. A door opens, lighting up the face of Iroh. Cut outside the cell as Warden Poon enters the room and approaches the cell. Frontal view of Poon as he drops a bowl. Side close-up view of the floor as the bowl lands on the ground which is kicked into the cell by Poon. The camera follows the bowl which tips over and the contents spill out. Iroh approaches hurriedly and eats it like an animal.
Warden Poon,Look at you, [Frontal view.] you're just a fat, disgusting old man. [Panning aerial view from behind.] You do nothing, you say nothing, you just eat and roll around in your own filth like a pig. [Frontal view of Poon as Iroh continues to eat.] You're a disgrace. [Spits on the floor in front of him and leaves.]
n/a,Frontal view of Iroh as the door shuts. Close-up of Iroh as he stops eating. Iroh moves his hair out of his face. Cut to a frontal view further away as he sits up and starts eating like a normal person, not eating anything from the floor as the camera pans out.  Scene changes to aerial view of the town Team Avatar saved. Cut to side-view of an outdoor restaurant. Aang joins Katara and Toph at a table.
Aang,These people have no idea [Closer side-view of the three.] how close they were to getting toasted last night.
Toph,Yeah, the worst thing about being in disguise is that we don't get the hero worship anymore. I miss the love.
Sokka,[Sarcastically.] Boo-hoo, [Shot of Sokka from behind looking back.] poor heroes. [Turns away.]
n/a,Frontal view of Sokka with the others sat further behind him.
Katara,What's your problem? You haven't even touched your smoked sea slug.
Sokka,It's just, all you guys can do this awesome bending stuff like putting out forest fires, and flying around and [Side-view of Toph, Aang and Katara.] making other stuff fly around. I can't fly around, okay? [View of Sokka from behind.] I can't do anything.
n/a,Side-view of the group.
Katara,That's not true. No one can read a map like you.
Toph,I can't read at all!
Aang,Yeah, and who keeps us laughing with sarcastic comments all the time? [Frontal view of Katara and Aang.] I mean, look at Katara's hair, right? What's up with that?
Katara,What? What's wrong with my hair? [Blushes.]
Aang,[Realizing his mistake.] Nothing. I was just trying to ...
Sokka,Look, I appreciate the effort, [Cut to view from behind.] but the fact is each of you is so amazing and so special and I'm ... not. [Side-view close-up.] I'm just the guy in the group who's regular.
Katara,[Approaches and sits next to him.] I'm sorry you're feeling so down, but I hope you know, none of us see you that way. [Frontal view of the two. Looks down for a moment before putting her hand on his shoulder.] I know something that's going to make you feel better.
Sokka,[Side-view. Sadly.] You do?
n/a,Cut to close-up of Sokka's face as the camera quickly pans out to reveal they are inside a shop full of weapons and armor.
Sokka,Shopping! [Clapping excitedly. Runs toward the camera. Cut to side-view as he approaches to view some weapons.] Maybe a little something to reinvigorate my battling. [Spots some nunchaku.] Hey, how about these? [Frontal view of Sokka. Sokka tests the nunchaku, making attacking noises, but he hits himself on the head and falls into some of the other weapons.]
n/a,Cut to Katara trying on some gloves.
Aang,[Off-screen.] What do you think? [Cut to Aang as the camera pans up to see him wearing strange, scary armor.] Pretty slick, huh? [Close-up of Katara with a scared and surprised expression. Side-view of Katara approaching Aang, holding a hand up to avoid the glare coming off Aang's helmet.] All I need to complete the outfit is a wind sword.
Katara,What's a wind sword?
Aang,It's where I get a sword handle and then I just swing this around and bend air out like a blade. [Raises a sword handle, swishing it around like a sword.] Whoosh, whoosh, whoosh.
Katara,[Unconvincingly.] Yeah ... nice.
n/a,Aang begins to fall over. Katara tries to stop him from falling, but Aang and the armor fall to the floor with a loud noise, causing Katara to cover her ears.
Aang,I'll just stick to what I got.
n/a,Cut to Sokka holding a guan dao. He swings it to one side, swings it over his head and spins it in a circle. The weapon flies up toward the ceiling and Sokka puts his hands behind his back, innocently. Sokka is next seen dragging an enormous, metal club across the floor. He groans as he tries to lift it, but loses his grip and falls. Sokka is next seen holding two swords. He marches and chops downward with them. Sokka is next seen spinning a chain over his head, but he wraps the chain around himself and falls over. Sokka is seen running, carrying a very wobbly spear. Cut to close-up shot of Sokka standing up into the frame inspecting a sai, before using it as a toothpick. At that moment, something to his left gets his attention. Sokka turns to look as the camera pans round behind him. Sokka sees a sword rack on the wall, and a particular sword framed and positioned above the others. Cut close-up as the camera pans rights, showing all the details of the hilt and scabbard.
Sokka,[Close-up.] Ooh! [Walks to the sword. Side-view of Sokka inspecting the sword.] That's what Sokka's talking about.
Weapons store shopkeeper,You have a good eye. [Aerial view of Sokka as shopkeeper approaches.] That's an original from Piandao, [Katara, Toph and Aang approach.] the greatest swordsmaster and sword maker in Fire Nation history. [Close-up.] He lives in the big castle up the road from here. [Walks away.]
Aang,[Side-view of group.] That's it! That's what you needed all along, Sokka.
Sokka,A sword?
Aang,Not the sword, a master. [Sokka takes the sword from the rack.] We've all had masters to help us get better. You should see if you can study with Piandao.
Katara,[Frontal view of Sokka with Katara behind.] That's a great idea. I could've never gotten to where I am without Master Pakku. Everyone needs a teacher.
Toph,[Side-view of group.] I learned from badgermoles. They don't talk, but they're still good teachers.
Sokka,[Close-up. Pulling out the blade, inspecting it.] It would be nice to be a master sword fighter. All right, I'll talk to him.
n/a,The scene cuts to a shot of the top of the bars of Iroh's cell. A ray of sunlight shines through a small window. It goes to an overhead shot of Iroh lying on his back on straw mat in the corner, hands behind his head. Cut to close-up side-view of his face. The camera suddenly zooms in as his eyes open wider. Cut to frontal view as Iroh begins to do a series of sit ups, grunting as he does so. The scene cuts to a shot of Piandao's castle, located on top of a large bluff. It goes down to a side-view of Sokka at the front gates. Cut closer behind Sokka as he grabs a knocker and taps it against the large door a few times. He waits a moment and looks around, but there is no answer. Sokka knocks the door and waits again. Still receiving no answer, Sokka becomes frustrated and grabs both knockers, banging them loudly and frantically. The right door is opened by the butler, Fat, frightening Sokka.
Fat,[A little annoyed.] Can I help you?
n/a,The scene cuts to a close-up of Sokka still looking frightened. He quickly composes himself and assumes a more mannered persona.
Sokka,I've come to train with the master.
Fat,[Side-view of both.] You should know The Master turns almost everyone away. [Holds hand out in front of Sokka.] What did you bring him to prove your worth?
Sokka,[Frontal view.] Well, uhh ... [Feels around, patting his clothes for something to offer.]
Fat,[Frontal view.] Right ... [Shakes head sadly.] Let's get this over with.
n/a,Fat gestures for Sokka to enter. Sokka steps through the gate and Fat closes the door. The scene cuts to an overhead shot of the castle courtyard as Sokka and Fat walk toward the main structure of the castle. The camera tilts up to the tallest tower. It cuts to a large room with a red carpet and tall windows, giving a view of the valley. Rows of lit candles are places on both sides of the windows. Piandao sits at a small table in front of the windows, his back to the camera. He has dark skin and wears a black cheongsam. Cut to a close-up of Piandao's hand holding a calligraphy brush and dipping it into a tray of ink, carefully holding his sleeve with the other hand. His hands move off screen and Sokka and Fat are seen in the background. The camera zooms in on Sokka as he steps forward.
Sokka,Master, my name is Sokka, and I wish to be instructed in the way of the sword.
n/a,The scene cuts to a shot of Piandao, his back still toward Sokka. His sword is placed next to the table.
Piandao,Sokka. That's an unusual name.
Sokka,[Frontal view. Nervously.] Oh, uh, really, uh where I come from, the Fire Nation colonies, it's a pretty normal name... for Fire Nation colonials.
Piandao,[Side-view. Writing calligraphy on a piece of parchment.] Let me guess. You've come hundreds of miles from your little village where you're the best swordsman in town. And you think you deserve to learn from the master.
Sokka,[Frontal view.] Well, actually, I've been all over the world.
Piandao,[Side-view of his arm and hand as he continues to write. Knowingly.] Yep, here we go.
Sokka,[Frontal view.] And I know one thing for sure: [Gets down on his knees and hangs his head.] I have a lot to learn.
Piandao,[Shot from behind. Glancing back.] You're not doing a very good job of selling yourself.
Sokka,[Side-view of room.] I know. Your butler told me that when I met you, I would have to prove my worth. [Close-up.] But the truth is... I don't know if I am worthy.
Piandao,[Close-up side-view.] Hm, I see. [Smiles and turns his head. Cut to his hand picking up his sword.] Well, then, [Close-up of Sokka.] let's find out together how worthy you are.
n/a,Sokka looks up as Piandao's shadow passes over him. Cut to a shot of the red carpet the end of Piandao's sword's scabbard strikes the floor. The camera quickly zooms out to a shot of Piandao standing before Sokka, sword firmly planted before him. Cut to a close-up of Piandao.
Piandao,I will train you.
n/a,Close-up of Sokka as a huge smile spreads across his face. The camera switches to Sokka and Piandao standing in a sword fighting ring in front of the building they were in earlier. Sokka is wearing an almost identical outfit to Piandao's.
Piandao,[Frontal view.] The first thing you must learn is that your weapon is an extension of yourself. [Cut further away as he unsheathes his sword and begins performing a sword form.] You must think of it as another part of your own body.
Sokka,[Close-up.] Like a second head.
Piandao,[Frontal view.] Well, more like an extra-long, really sharp arm. [Side-view of both. Continuing his demonstration.] The sword is a simple tool, but in the hands of a master it becomes [Close-up.] the most versatile of weapons, [Frontal view from below. Sheathes his sword and assumes a stance.] and just as the imagination is limitless, [Close-up of Sokka smiling in amazement.] so too are the possibilities of the sword.
n/a,Sokka nods his head in understanding. Cut to Aang, Toph, Katara, Appa, and Momo in the countryside. Appa is sleeping under the makeshift roof.
Aang,What should we do today‌?
n/a,Cut to an overhead shot of Aang, Toph, and Katara lying on their backs in a circle. Momo runs up to them and lies down next to Katara.
Toph,I'm tapped out. I already picked my toes, twice.
Aang,Twice?
Toph,The first time was for cleaning, but the second time's just for the [Wiggles her toes.] sweet picking sensation!
Katara,Sokka's been in charge of the schedule. I'm not sure what we should be doing.
Toph,[Frontal view of Aang with Toph behind. Picking her nose.] Plus, it's so hot today.
Aang,[Attempting to joke.] How hot is it?
Toph,I dunno. Real hot‌?
Katara,[Camera pans across to show Katara.] I-It's so hot, it's so hot ... Momo is shedding like Appa. [Pets Momo and flicks tufts of fur from her fingers.] Huh, huh‌?
n/a,Aang scratches his head and Katara's joke receives no laughs, leaving her disappointed. It goes back to the overhead shot.
Aang,I guess the jokes don't run in the family.
n/a,Cut back to view of the countryside.
Katara,Oh, everyone's a critic.
n/a,Appa grunts in response. The scene cuts to a shot of Iroh hanging upside down and doing crunches, panting with effort. It switches to a shot of his feet as he hangs from the overhead bars. Cut to and zoom out from a wide shot of Iroh doing the upside down crunches in his cell. The scene shifts to Piandao and Sokka standing in front of a table inside the building. On the table is calligraphy stationary.
Piandao,The warrior practices a variety of arts to keep his mind sharp and fluid. [Flattens out a piece of paper on the table.] The first you will learn is calligraphy. [Cut to his hands as Piandao delicately hands a brush to Sokka, who takes it, messing the bristles up with his thumb.] Write your name.
Sokka,[Close-up. Skeptical.] Writing my name will make me a better swordsman‌?
Piandao,[Takes the brush and positions it correctly in Sokka's hand. Cut to a wide shot of both.] When you write your name, you stamp the paper with your identity. You must learn to use your sword to stamp your identity on a battlefield. [Sokka holds his sleeve back. Cut to close-up of the ink as Sokka dips the brush in to it. Cut to frontal view of Sokka readying himself to paint as Piandao looks on.] Remember, you cannot take back a stroke of the brush, or a stroke of the sword.
n/a,Sokka's hand quivers and he sweats nervously, the brush barely an inch above the paper. He scratches his head and places the tip of the brush on his chin, thinking hard about what to do.
Piandao,[Close-up as he moves forward.] You are getting ink on your face.
Sokka,[Frontal view of both.] I am? [Looks at the brush.] I am! So this is about putting my identity on the page, right?
n/a,Piandao nods. It cuts to a close-up of Sokka. He smiles and the camera zooms out as he proceeds to brush the ink over his face. The camera tilts down as Sokka presses his face onto the paper and rolls his head around. Cut behind Sokka as he picks up the paper and shows it to Piandao, smiling cheerfully. On the paper is a large inkblot which vaguely resembles a face. Piandao simply closes his eyes in response. The scene cuts to a shot of the main building. The camera tilts down to show Sokka and Fat facing off in the sword fighting ring, both wearing training equipment and holding wooden swords. Piandao sits at the top of the steps leading to the building, watching. Close-up of Fat as he wipes his nose as he waits for Sokka to make a move. Cut to Sokka as he lunges at Fat and thrusts his sword. Cut to side-view as Fat effortlessly parries the attack and knocks the sword from Sokka's hands. Sokka runs away in fright and Fat chases after, whacking him in the rear with the wooden sword.
Piandao,Landscape painting teaches a warrior to hold the lay of the land in his mind.
n/a,Side-view. Piandao stops Sokka, turns him to face left, and pulls off the blindfold.
Piandao,In battle, you only have an instant to take everything in.
n/a,Cut to a close-up of Sokka rubbing his eyes. The camera rotates around to his front as his eyes grow wide and he smiles with excitement and amazement. It cuts to a shot of Sokka and Piandao, their backs to the camera, standing before a majestic view of a mighty river flowing into a series of waterfalls that drop into a canyon. Cut back to Sokka. Piandao grabs his head and turns him away, making him sit in front of a table with a piece of paper, paint, and paint brushes.
Piandao,Now, paint it.
n/a,Frontal view of Sokka, who gasps in disbelief. Side-view as he turns to look at the waterfall, but Piandao turns his head back.
Piandao,And no peeking.
n/a,Piandao walks away as Sokka takes a brush and begins to paint the intricate view. Cut to a wide shot of the landscape. The camera pans right, toward Piandao and Sokka. Fade to a shot of Piandao's back with his sword in his hands behind his back. The camera tilts up to his front, his eyes closed in silent meditation.
Sokka,I'm finished!
n/a,Piandao opens his eyes and looks at Sokka. Cut to a shot of Sokka presenting a very childish and colorful drawing of the landscape, which bears little resemblance, including a rainbow and a sun with a smiling face.
Piandao,[Frontal view.] You added a rainbow.
Sokka,[Frontal view. Worried.] Is that ok‌ay?
n/a,Close-up view as Piandao sighs and shakes his head. The scene cuts to the main building. The camera tilts down to Sokka and Fat in the sword fighting ring with the training gear. Sokka thrusts forward and he and Fat begin their practice fight. Sokka fares much better than before. Frontal view as he grunts as he parries a strike and attempts to swing his wooden sword down, but is distracted.
Piandao,[Off-screen.] Sokka.
n/a,Cut to and zooms out to show the fighting ring with Piandao still sitting above. Sokka looks over to Piandao, giving Fat the opportunity to circle behind him and kick him in the back, causing a slightly painful fall to the ground. Cut to Sokka looking up at Piandao.
Piandao,[Close-up.] Concentrate on what you're doing.
n/a,Cut back to Sokka, who frowns and drops his head, giving Piandao a half-hearted thumbs up. Cut to a wide shot of Piandao's castle. The camera tilts down to Sokka and Piandao walking to the top of a stairway leading down to an empty, tiled area. A small statue of a lion turtle comes into the foreground.
Piandao,Rock gardening teaches the warrior to manipulate his surroundings and use them to his advantage.
n/a,The scene cuts to a close-up of Sokka. He places a hand on his chin and thinks carefully.
Sokka,Hm, manipulate them to my advantage ... oh!
n/a,Cut to a wide-view of the tiled area below. Piandao watches as Sokka runs down the steps. Cut to a shot of Piandao. A look of worry comes over him and the camera quickly zooms out to show Sokka rolling a huge stone across the ground. Sokka groans at the strain of it. Cut to a shot of a sheet of moss lying on a rock. Sokka appears from behind and examines its texture before taking it and running back to the other side of the area. Sokka throws the moss on the huge stone and lays down on it, sighing in relaxation. The camera quickly zooms out to a shot of Sokka lying on the easy chair he made from rocks and moss, expressing his content. Cut to a shot of Fat walking up from behind Piandao. Fat suddenly gasps in shock. It cuts to a shot of stones scattered all over the tiled floor, creating a mess. Sokka waves at Fat.
Sokka,Hey, would you mind grabbing a cold drink for me‌?
n/a,Cut back to Fat and Piandao. Fat gasps and turns to Piandao.
Piandao,I'll take a slice of lemon in mine, please.
n/a,Fat groans in resignation, hangs his head, and walks off to fetch the drinks. Cut to Sokka and Fat dueling in the sword fighting ring again, Piandao sitting in the foreground. Sokka and Fat thrust and parry a few strikes. Sokka swings his sword in a circle and tries to hit Fat's leg, but Fat pulls his leg up and he avoids the attack. Cut to a close-up of the two from behind Sokka. The scene goes into slow motion as Fat swings his sword and Sokka parries it. Sokka returns the strike and is also parried. The camera cuts to behind Fat as Sokka continues his offense with four quick thrusts. Fat blocks all the attacks and tries to attack Sokka. He misses, and Sokka uses this opportunity to slip the blade of his wooden sword under Fat's hand and fling the wooden sword from it. Fat is shocked and raises his hands in defeat as Sokka thrusts his sword forward and places the blade on the side of Fat's neck, ending the duel. Sokka steps away from Fat, puts his hands together and bows to Piandao, while Fat frowns angrily at him. It cuts to a shot of Piandao sipping a drink from a cup with a slice of lemon stuck on it. The scene cuts to a shot of the outside of the Fire Nation prison and zooms in. Cut to the inside of Iroh's cell and zoom in on Iroh doing push-ups on his knuckles, clapping his hands together at the apex of each push. Cut to a shot of Warden Poon sitting and eating a piece of bread. He hears the clapping and goes to investigate. Cut to Iroh continuing to do push-ups. Cut to Warden Poon walking toward the door to Iroh's cell. Cut to a shot from inside the cell of him looking in through the barred window in the door.
Warden Poon,What's going on in there‌?
n/a,Cut to a shot of Iroh sitting against the wall and lazily clapping his hands side to side with a delirious expression. Cut back to Warden Poon.
Warden Poon,Crazy old man.
n/a,Warden Poon leaves. Cut back to Iroh. He claps a few more times and smiles when he is sure the warden is gone, ceasing his clapping and pushing back the stray hair hanging over his face. The scene cuts to a far shot of the Avatar group's campsite near the river.
Katara,So where are we going next‌? [Cut to a shot of Aang and Katara sitting around a map of the Fire Nation. Pointing to the map.] We're starting from here ...
Aang,[Pointing at a different spot.] No, we're over on this island.
Toph,[Lying down.] You noodle-brains don't know what you're doing. I miss Sokka.
Katara,Ooh, I got one: if you miss him so much, why don't you marry him‌?
n/a,Katara grins at her joke. The camera quickly zooms out and a groan is heard in the background. Toph rolls over on her side, away from Katara. A winged insect buzzes in front of Aang, who simply blows it away with a quick blast of wind from his breath. Cut to a shot of the sword fighting ring in front of the main building at Piandao's castle. The camera tilts down to Sokka and Piandao sitting on the ground.
Piandao,You've had a good first day of training.
Sokka,[Frontal view.] I have‌? But I thought I messed up every single thing we worked on!
Piandao,[Frontal view of feet. Camera pans up to his face.] You messed things up in a very special way. You are ready for a real sword.
Sokka,[Frontal view. Excited.] Are you giving me one of yours‌?
Piandao,[Frontal view.] No.
n/a,Frontal view of Sokka, who groans disappointedly and slumps down.
Piandao,[Frontal view. Camera zooms in on his face.] Your sword must be an extension of yourself. So tomorrow, you will make your own sword.
n/a,Cut to and zoom in on Sokka. He immediately perks up and grins. Cut to a shot of a rack of swords. Weapons are hung all about the room. The camera pans left to Sokka and Piandao standing at a table. On the table are several bricks of steel.
Piandao,Choosing the correct material is the most important step in crafting a sword. [Close-up and zooms out showing the steel in front of him.] You must trust your steel with your life. Choose carefully.
n/a,Sokka takes two bricks and weighs them in each hand. Sokka sets them down and takes another brick. He sniffs it and bites the brick to test its quality. Cut to side-view as Sokka puts the brick down and puts a hand to his chin thoughtfully. An idea comes to his mind and he turns to Piandao.
Sokka,Master, [Side-view of Sokka looking at Piandao.] would it be possible for me to leave and bring back a special material for my sword‌?
Piandao,[Side-view of Piandao looking at Sokka.] I wouldn't have it any other way.
n/a,Piandao smiles at Sokka. Cut to Aang, Katara, Toph and Appa all asleep and sitting around the map as they were before. Toph suddenly sits up.
Toph,[Excitedly.] Sokka's coming!
n/a,Aang and Katara wake up, gasping and smiling excitedly. Cut to a shot of Sokka walking up to the top of the hill.
Sokka,Hey, guys. What are you doing‌?
n/a,Aang, Katara, and Toph all jump at Sokka and give him a group hug.
Aang,Sokka!
Toph,You're back!
Katara,[Close-up of Sokka and Katara with Aang in the foreground.] We missed you so much!
Aang,[Close-up as he steps back slightly.] Say something funny!
Sokka,[Close-up. Confused.] Funny how‌?
n/a,Cut to overhead view as Aang and Katara both laugh heartily. Toph smiles and crosses her arms.
Sokka,[Side-view of Sokka with Toph in the foreground. To Toph.] What's their deal‌?
Toph,[Nonchalantly.] I don't know. They missed you or something. I didn't care. [Turns away, blushing and smiling.]
Sokka,[Overhead side-view of group.] Thanks. That warms my heart. Anyway, I need some help.
n/a,Cut to a shot of the gang running over to the edge of the crater created the night before. Cut to a shot of the group, their backs to the camera, as they stare at the meteorite at the bottom of the crater. The camera zooms in on the meteorite before cutting to an overhead shot of Iroh sitting in his cell, looking through the bars in the ceiling. Cut to a close-up of Iroh's eyes. They are closed for a brief moment before opening. Iroh leans forward and puts his head on the floor. The camera cuts to a shot of Iroh's legs rising into the air and tilts down as Iroh stands on his hands. Close-up of Iroh sweating heavily, as he begins to perform hand-stand push-ups.
Piandao,Who's this‌?
Sokka,[Overhead view from behind Piandao.] Oh, these are my friends. Just other good Fire Nation folks. [They bow to Piandao. Cut to Piandao, who bows back. The camera zooms out to show the meteorite and Sokka.] Do you think we can make a sword out of a meteorite‌?
n/a,Piandao lays a hand on the meteorite and examines it.
Piandao,[Close-up.] We'll make a sword unlike any other in the world.
n/a,Cut to a shot of a fiery forge. The camera zooms out and turns left to Sokka bare-chested and shoveling coal into it, before switching to Piandao and Fat, who is carrying a large sledge hammer. The camera cuts and tilts up to a shot of Sokka holding a chisel against the meteorite while Fat hammers it, Piandao watching in the back. Cut to a shot of Sokka tapping the chisel with a smaller hammer. A piece of the meteorite breaks off and falls to the floor. Sokka takes a moment to wipe the sweat from his brow. Cut to a shot of a wooden bucket filled with the meteorite fragments. Fat takes the bucket and the camera follows him as he brings it over to the forge. Sokka is seen working the bellows diligently. The camera zooms in as Katara and Aang peer in at Sokka from around the corner. Fade to a shot of the bucket sitting in the fires of the forge. Cut to a shot of Sokka holding his legs to his chest, asleep. He wakes up and looks behind him at the forge. He stands up and resumes shoveling in coal. The camera zooms out to show Piandao observing Sokka from outside. Fade to a shot of the bucket being pulled from the forge by Sokka with iron tongs. He carefully positions the liquid space metal over a mold of a blade and pours it in. Cut to a shot of the red hot metal being hammered against a stone. Cut to Piandao as he raises the hot blade and looks carefully at it. An excited Sokka can be seen behind him. Cut to a shot from inside a trough of water as Piandao dips the blade in. The blade makes the water bubble and boil as it hisses and cools, turning black.  Fade to a shot of the outside of the main building, the camera tilting down to the open doors. Cut to a shot of the inside. Sokka is seated in front of Piandao. Aang, Katara, and Toph sit behind Sokka while Fat stands behind Piandao, holding Sokka's sword.
Piandao,Sokka, when you first arrived, you were so unsure. You even seemed down on yourself. [Frontal view of Piandao as the camera pans across to the right revealing Fat.] But I saw something in you right away. [Side-view of Sokka.] I saw a heart as strong as a lion turtle, and twice as big. [Side-view of the room.] And as we trained, it wasn't your skills that impressed me. [Fat kneels to Piandao and gives him the sword. Frontal view of Piandao as he turns back to face the camera.] No, it certainly wasn't your skills. [Brief close-up of Sokka, who looks down in shame, before cutting back to a close-up of Piandao.] You showed something beyond that. [Unsheathes the sword, showing its black blade. Cut to side-view of Piandao as the camera zooms out and follows the blade as he strikes out to the side.] Creativity, versatility, [Frontal view of Sokka with the sword in the foreground.] intelligence ... [Sokka looks down.] these are the traits that define a great swordsman. [Side-view of Piandao as he sheathes the sword.] And these are the traits that define you. [Kneels and presents the sword to Sokka. Cut to frontal view of Sokka, from Piandao's perspective, who takes it.] You told me you didn't know if you were worthy, [Close-up shot as he stands up.] but I believe that you are more worthy than any man I have ever trained.
n/a,Cut to a shot of the sword in Sokka's hands. The camera tilts up to Sokka as he lowers his head in shame.
Sokka,I'm sorry, Master. You're wrong. [Close-up of Piandao.] I am not worthy. [Side-view of Sokka.] I'm not who you think I am. I'm not from the Fire Nation. I'm from the Southern Water Tribe. [Cut to side-view of Aang, Katara, and Toph who all gawk at Sokka with shock and disbelief. Close-up side-view of Piandao and Sokka.] I lied so that I could learn swordsmanship from you. I'm sorry. [Offering his sword back.]
Piandao,[Close-up.] I'm sorry, too.
n/a,Piandao quickly turns back around and swings his sword at Sokka. Cut to Sokka who stands and avoids the attack. Side-view of Sokka who, after unsheathing his sword, blocks a thrust from Piandao. Side-view of Aang, Katara, and Toph who get up and go to help Sokka. Cut to frontal view of the three that quickly zooms out to show Sokka who raises his hand to stop them.
Sokka,No, this is my fight, alone.
n/a,Cut to a close-up of Piandao before cutting to Iroh's cell. Warden Poon enters, carrying a tray of food. The camera pans right to a close-up of Iroh.
Warden Poon,You used to be the pride of the Fire Nation. Our top general, the Dragon of the West. Now, look at you. [Drops the food to the floor. Cut to aerial shot of the floor as the trays contents go everywhere. Iroh grabs a green fruit from behind the bars. Cut to close-up of Iroh on the ground as he moves the fruit to his mouth.] Look what you've become.
n/a,Iroh watches the warden leave and stands up. Cut to frontal view as he puts the fruit to his mouth and holds it in his teeth as he begins to untie his belt. Close-up side-view as his shirt comes off and a thick, folded sheet that had been covering his belly falls to the floor. Cut to shot of the sheet hitting the ground and the camera tilts up to reveal Iroh's new, incredibly buff physique. Iroh takes the fruit from his mouth, bites into it, and jumps up. Cut to close-up shot above the cell bars as Iroh grabs a bar above with one hand. Side-view of Iroh who takes another bite of the fruit and begins doing one handed pull-ups. Cut to and zoom out on a side-view of Iroh and his cell. The scene cuts to a shot of Sokka and Piandao squared off in the sword fighting ring. Aang, Katara, Toph, and Fat watch from the upper part of the main building. Cut to and zoom in on Sokka, ready with his black sword. Cut to a shot of the tip of Piandao's sword pointed at the ground. The camera tilts up to him, his other hand raised and pointed. Panning side-view of the others who watch nervously.
Piandao,Excellent! [Close-up.] Using your superior agility against an older opponent ... smart.
n/a,Piandao charges at Sokka again. Close-up of Sokka as he readies his sword. Shot from behind Sokka as Piandao strikes at him and pushes him up a large stone stairway with the camera panning down to follow their movements. Cut to behind Piandao, titled up toward the stairs, as Sokka blocks all of the attacks, but the force pushes him against the wall of the stairway. Cut to Sokka as his back hits the wall and he deflects a thrust from Piandao upward, and ducks as the blade slices through the part of the wall above his shoulder. Cut to Piandao as he swings his sword around his head and body in two large circles. Frontal view of Sokka as he barely dodges Piandao's blade, cart wheeling to the right as the camera pans with him. Camera pans back left as Sokka spins back around, hops a foot off the ground and pushes off the wall with his legs, propelling himself forward, sword extended. Side-view as Piandao deflects the attack. Wide-view of the stairs as Sokka rolls across the stair to the other wall, climbing to the top. Frontal view of the wall as Sokka reaches the top.
Piandao,Good use of terrain ... fighting from the high ground.
n/a,Sokka swings at Piandao below him, who parries and swings at Sokka. Piandao thrusts his sword at Sokka, who pins the blade under his own blade, weighted down under his feet. Cut to Sokka standing on the swords before switching back to Piandao, who tries to wrench his sword free. Cut to Piandao's feet as he steps forward and the camera pans up as he pushes his sword upward, throwing Sokka off. View from behind Sokka as he grunts, stumbling back into a tall stalk of bamboo. Cut to a shot of Toph, Aang, and Katara all wincing at the sight. Cut back to Sokka as he looks up fearfully, strands of hair falling over his face. Frontal view of Piandao as he raises his sword and charges at Sokka. Cut back to Sokka as he ducks Piandao's attack that slices through the bamboo just above his head. He turns to run off into the bamboo thicket. Frontal view of Sokka as he runs away. Cut to frontal shot of Sokka running through the bamboo thicket, slicing through as many surrounding stalks of bamboo that he can. As Piandao chases after, the stalks all begin to fall. Close-up of Piandao skillfully cutting through the bamboo. Side-view of Sokka as he runs through the bamboo and turns, grabbing a stalk and pulling it. He lets it go just as Piandao catches up. Cut to the stalk whipping around. Cut to side-view of Piandao cutting through it with ease as Sokka tries to attack from behind.
Piandao,Yes, use your surroundings. [Piandao deflects the attacks as Sokka runs away. Sokka grabs two stalks and pulls them back before releasing them. They whip around at Piandao, who slices through them.] Make them fight for you!
n/a,Cut to a shot of Sokka running out of the bamboo and back toward the sword fighting ring, screaming in terror and Piandao not far behind. The camera shifts to Sokka's front. He is very frightened and takes a look behind, but Piandao has run off to the side and out of sight. Side-view of Sokka who turns to look ahead only for Piandao to strike out in front of him, trying to make him run into it. However, Sokka leans back. The scene goes into slow motion and the camera cuts to an overhead close-up of Sokka sliding under the blade. The scene comes back to normal speed and cuts to a frontal view as Sokka stands back up and stumbles forward, stabbing his sword into the ground to stop his fall. Cut behind Sokka as he uses his momentum to swing his sword back around, flinging dirt and dust at Piandao. The scene goes into slow motion again and the camera cuts to a close-up of Piandao as the dirt hits him in the face, blinding him. The scene comes back to normal speed and cuts to a frontal shot of Piandao as he spins around and positions his sword behind his back to defend any sneak attacks. Cut to a close-up of Piandao, his eyes closed.
Piandao,Very resourceful.
n/a,Piandao turns his head and listens for any sounds. Cut close-up to Sokka and zooms out as he nervously raises his sword defensively. He slowly tries to sneak away, careful not to make any noises that would give away his location. Cut to a twig on the ground as Sokka steps on it, snapping it. Close-up of Piandao who turns his head toward Sokka when he hears it. Camera zooms out as he twirls his sword around into an offensive position and charges forward. Close-up of Sokka who takes a step back as Piandao closes in. Side-view of the fight as Piandao strikes. Sokka parries the attack. Cut behind Sokka as Piandao catches Sokka's blade with his own. He pushes Sokka's sword around in two circles and flings Sokka's sword out of his hands. Side-view of the fight as Sokka watches his sword fly into the air and stab into the ground several feet away. Cut to side-view of Sokka looking worried as Piandao moves to attack. The scene goes into slow motion and cuts to a side-view of the two as Piandao swings his sword in large, horizontal arc at Sokka. Sokka is not cut by the blade, but is instead hit in the chest by Piandao's arms, knocking him on his back. Cut to Sokka landing on the ground and he looks up fearfully. Cut to frontal view of Piandao from the ground as Piandao turns and points his sword at Sokka's head. Cut to Sokka who leans back in fear. Frontal view of Aang, Katara, and Toph as they all jump from the building to the ground and run toward Sokka and Piandao. Cut to a close-up of Piandao. The camera zooms out as he swings his sword away from Sokka, halting Aang, Katara, and Toph.
Piandao,Excellent work, Sokka.
n/a,Cut to a shot of Sokka squinting at Piandao curiously. Cut to a shot of Piandao with Aang, Katara, and Toph in the background. He raises his hand and the camera tilts up slightly as he signals to Fat. Cut to a frontal view of Fat as he flings the scabbard of Piandao's sword toward him. Frontal view of the still blinded Piandao as he turns and points his sword upward. Side-view as the scabbard flies right onto the blade.
Piandao,I think I'm a little old to be fighting the Avatar.
n/a,Cut to a shot of Aang, Katara, and Toph in their bending stances. They come out of their stances and Aang and Katara look at each other in surprise.
Aang,How did you know‌?
n/a,The scene cuts to a shot of Piandao and Sokka. Sokka stands back up as Fat walks on screen carrying a drink and a white cloth.
Piandao,Oh, I've been around a while. You pick things up. [Wipes the dirt off his face with the cloth.] Of course, I knew from the beginning that Sokka was Water Tribe. [Close-up of Sokka.] You might want to think of a better Fire Nation cover name. [Camera zooms out to show Piandao.] Try Lee. There's a million Lees. [Sips his drink.].
n/a,Cut to a frontal shot of Aang, Katara and Toph with Fat and Piandao facing toward them, their backs to the camera.
Katara,But why would you agree to train someone from the Water Tribe‌?
Piandao,[Close-up.] The way of the sword doesn't belong to any one nation. [Frontal shot of Piandao, Sokka and Fat as the other three look on, their backs to the camera.] Knowledge of the arts belongs to us all. [Gives his sword to Fat. Cut to Sokka's sword as he pulls it out of the ground. Cut to side-view of Piandao and Sokka as Piandao gives the sword back to Sokka.] Sokka, you must continue your training on your own. [Close-up.] If you stay on this path, I know that one day [Close-up.] you will become an even greater master than I am.
n/a,Cut to a shot of Aang, Katara, and Sokka all smiling warmly. Cut back to Sokka and Piandao as they bow to each other. The scene cuts to a wide shot of the group leaving Piandao's castle through the front gates. It cuts to a closer shot of the group from the front. Fat is running up to them from behind.
Fat,Wait! [Everyone turns to him. Side-view.] The Master wanted you to have this, as something to remember him by.
n/a,Cut to a close-up of Fat giving a small, brown bag to Sokka. Overhead view as they all bow as a farewell and Fat walks back to the castle. The camera zooms in as Sokka opens the bag and pulls out a white lotus Pai Sho tile.
Sokka,It's a Pai Sho tile.
n/a,Cuts to a close-up of the tile in Sokka's hands.
Aang,The White Lotus. Huh.
Katara,What does it mean‌?
Sokka,[Cut to close-up of Aang and Sokka as Fat is seen in the background closing the doors. Sokka and Aang look back and the camera zooms in on the doors, clearly showing a lotus design on the doors surrounding the Fire Nation symbol.] I have no idea. [Overhead view. Sokka reaches into his pocket.] Ooh, that reminds me! Toph, I thought you might like this [Close-up view of Sokka offering her a chunk of the meteorite.] since you've probably never had a chance to bend space earth before.
Toph,[Taking the rock. Side-view.] Sweet! [Cut to a close-up of the space earth floating between Toph's hands. She shapes it into a swirl, a star, and a splatter shaped similar to the Nickelodeon logo.] Check this out.
n/a,Cuts to a shot of the group as they walk off down the trail.
Katara,You know, I don't think there's such a thing as space earth. If it's from space, then it's not really earth.
Sokka,Must you ruin everything‌?
n/a,Cut to a wide, overhead shot of Piandao's castle and Team Avatar walking away.
Katara,I can't believe I missed you.
n/a,Fade to white. Fade to end credits.
